# Internationalization (i18n)

The storefront is driven by different content streams. Most of the content is driven by either the CMS or by the product content. There's however a portion of content that is provided by so-called site labels (i.e. texts in buttons or form placeholders).

Site labels are stored in separated files and can be translated into various languages.

## Dependencies

Under the hood Spartacus uses `i18next` library for translation mechanism and  `i18next-xhr-backend` for lazy loading of translation chunks (called namespaces). Those libraries have rich API, but we support only parts of it and treat as an implementation detail. In other words, Spartacus doesn't support a custom usage of `i18next` in your application.

## Getting started

For a quick start, just import predefined Spartacus translations (currently only in English) from `@spartacus/storefront` and register them in the config of the `StorefrontModule`:

```typescript
import { translations } from '@spartacus/storefront';

// ...

imports: [
  StorefrontModule.withConfig({
    i18n: {
        resources: translations
    }
  })
];
```

You can also provide your own English translations and add for other languages, for example:

```typescript
import { translations } from '@spartacus/storefront';

// ...

imports: [
  StorefrontModule.withConfig({
    i18n: {
        resources: {
            en: traslations, // or YOUR_ENGLISH_TRANSATIONS,
            de: YOUR_GERMAN_TRANSATIONS,
            ...
        }
    }
  })
];
```

This will compile the translations in to your application JS bundle. While it's a good way for a quick start, in production you would like to take advantage from lazy loading of translation chunks.

## Lazy loading

It makes a lot of sense to load translation resources only for the current language and only for the current page. That is why translations are structured by language and named chunks (called namespaces):

Translation resources have a structure: 
```typescript
interface TranslationResources {
  [lang: string]: {
    [chunkName: string]: {
      [key: string]: any; // value or nested object with keys
    };
  };
}
```

To take advantage from lazy loading, you need to serve different JSON files, each for a specific language and namespace, and configure the URL to them using placeholders: `{{lng}}` for language and `{{ns}}` for namespace. For example:

```typescript
imports: [
  StorefrontModule.withConfig({
    i18n: {
        backend: {
            loadPath: 'assets/i18n-assets/{{lng}}/{{ns}}.json'
            // crossOrigin: true, - use this option when i18n assets come from a different domain
        },
    }
  })
];
```

You can find the predefined Spartacus' JSON files with translations in the folder `/i18n-assets` of `@spartacus/storefront`. But you need to serve them: either from your custom endpoint, or simply by copying them into `/assets` folder of your Angular application. For example:
```bash
$ cp ./node_modules/@spartacus/storefront/i18n-assets ./src/assets -r
```
*Note: `./src/assets` is a standard path for apps created by Angular CLI. Your path to assets may be different.*

## Using translations in HTML

You can use the `cxTranslate` pipe, for example:

```html
<input placeholder="{{ 'searchBox.searchHere' | cxTranslate }}" />
```

### Config of chunks and namespaces mapping

Every key belongs to some named space (namespace). Each namespace is encapsulated in a chunk (`i18n.chunks` below). But in order to resolve which key is in which namespace and chunk, a config is needed:

```typescript
imports: [
  StorefrontModule.withConfig({
    i18n: {
        backend: {
            loadPath: 'assets/i18n-assets/{{lng}}/{{ns}}.json'
        },
        chunks: {
            ...
            common: ['searchBox', 'sorting', ...],
            cart: ['cartDetails', 'cartItems', ...]
            product: ['productDetails', 'productList', ...]
            ...
        }
    }
  })
];
```

```js
// common.json
{
    ...
    "searchBox": {
        "searchHere": "Search here..."
    },
    "sorting": {
        "date": "Date",
        "orderNumber": "Order Number"
    },
    ...
}
```

```js
// cart.json
{
    "cartItems": {
        ...
        "itemPrice": "Item price",
        ...
    },
}
```

### Parameters

You can also pass parameters into the translation pipe, for example:

```html
<p>{{ 'miniLogin.hello' | cxTranslate : { name: person.name } }}</p>
```

```js
// resources
{
    "miniLogin": {
        "hello": "Hello, {{ name }}"
    }
}
```

### Special parameters

There are two special parameters of translation pipe used for pluralization and conditional translations: `count` and `context`.

#### *count* parameter

You can pass the `count` parameter to differ translations for the same key depending on the integer value of `count`. It takes the current language into consideration. Different languages have [different plural rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Localization/Localization_and_Plurals). Languages as simple as English have only 2 forms: singular and plural, but other languages may have more. For example:

```html
<p>{{ 'miniCart.item' | cxTranslate : { count: cart.totalItem } }}</p>
```

Translation resources:

```js
// cart.en.json (ENGLISH)
{
    "miniCart": {
        "item": "{{count}} item currently in your cart",
        "item_plural": "{{count}} items currently in your cart"
    }
}
```

But for languages with more than 2 forms, numeric suffixes are used `_0`, `_1`, ... `_5`. For example in Polish there are 3 rules:

```js
// cart.pl.json (POLISH)
{
    "miniCart": {
        "item": "Masz {{ count }} przedmiot w koszyku",
        "item_2": "Masz {{ count }} przedmioty w koszyku",
        "item_5": "Masz {{ count }} przedmiotów w koszyku",
    }
}
```

[Here is a small tool](https://jsfiddle.net/jamuhl/3sL01fn0/#tabs=result) which helps figuring out the correct plural suffixes for different languages. 

More about the special `count` parameter in the official `i18next` docs: https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/plurals


#### *context* parameter

You can pass the special parameter `context` to differ translations for the same key depending on the string value of `context`. It's useful to translate enum values from backend. For example:

```html
<p>{{ 'order.status' | cxTranslate : { context: order.status } }}</p>
```

Translation resources:

```js
{
    "order": {
        "status_processing": "In process...",
        "status_completed": "Completed",
        "status_cancelled": "Cancelled",
    }
}
```

More about the special `context` parameter in the official i18next docs: https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/plurals

### Other special parameters (unsupported)

There are few special parameters which interfere with the `i18next` translation mechanism, but Spartacus doesn't support them and we recommend to avoid using them:

`defaultValue`, `replace`, `lng`, `lngs`, `fallbackLng`, `ns`, `keySeparator`, `nsSeparator`, `returnObjects`, `joinArrays`, `postProcess`, `interpolation`, `skipInterpolation`

That being said, here are official `i18next` docs for those *unsupported* parameters: https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/essentials#overview-options

## Using translations in TS code

If you need to make use of translations before the template inject the translation service as follows:

```typescript
import { TranslationService } from '@spartacus/core';

constructor(
    private translation: TranslationService
) {}

getPaymentCardContent(payment: PaymentDetails): Observable<Card> {
￼	return combineLatest([
￼	  this.translation.translate('paymentForm.payment'),
￼	  this.translation.translate('paymentCard.expires', {
￼	    month: payment.expiryMonth,
￼	    year: payment.expiryYear,
￼	  }),
￼	]).pipe(
￼	  map(([textTitle, textExpires]) => {
￼	    return {
￼	      title: textTitle,
￼	      textBold: payment.accountHolderName,
￼	      text: [payment.cardType.name, payment.cardNumber, textExpires],
￼	    };
￼	  })
￼	);
}
```
It is observable so please remember to add `async` pipe in the template:
```html
<cx-card
    [content]="getPaymentCardContent(order.paymentInfo) | async"
></cx-card>
```
## Upgrading

When Spartacus comes out with new features, it publishes new JSON files with predefined translations. Then any differences need to be taken into account in the JSON files translated into other languages.

For easier upgrades, we recommend NOT to add any custom keys in the namespaces of Spartacus, but rather to create custom chunks and namespaces for your custom features. Otherwise on every new version of Spartacus shipping with new translations, you will have to add your custom keys to new Spartacus JSON files.

## Extending translations

When you add new custom features and want to add new translations, there is the risk that in future Spartacus Storefront or other library from Spartacus' ecosystem will come out with similar feature with the same translation key.
To avoid conflicts of keys, we recommend prefixing your feature keys with your app/library abbreviation. For example a library called `Super Library` that has `custom feature`, can have key:

```html
<p>{{ 'slCustomFeature.subKey' | cxTranslate</p>
```

```js
{
    "slCustomFeature": {
        "subKey": "value",
    }
}
```
