# Technical Changes in Spartacus 3.0

## Breaking Changes

### Translations (i18n) changed

- fixed the typo in the key `user.register.managementInMyAccount` (previously ...`managmentInMyAccount`)
- key `checkout.checkoutReview.editShippingMethod` has been removed
- key `checkout.checkoutReview.editPaymentMethod` has been removed

### Default Router options changed

The Angular router can be initialized with so-called `ExtraOptions` in the `forRoot` method fo the `RouterModule`. See https://angular.io/api/router/ExtraOptions for more information on those options.

The default `ExtraOptions` have changed with 3.0. Before 3.0, Spartacus set the `anchorScrolling` and `scrollPositionRestoration` options. In Spartacus 3.0, the `scrollPositionRestoration` has dropped, and the `relativeLinkResolution` and `initialNavigation` has been added. See the below table for the actual values and reasoning

| Option                      | < 3.0       | > 3.0         |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| `anchorScrolling`           | `'enabled'` | `'enabled'`   |
| `scrollPositionRestoration` | `'enabled'` | (removed)     |
| `relativeLinkResolution`    | n/a         | `'corrected'` |
| `initialNavigation`         | n/a         | `'enabled'`   |
|                             |             |

The enabled `scrollPositionRestoration` was causing a bad experience in most cases, as it would scroll the page to the top on each route change. This is unexpected in a single page experience.

The corrected `relativeLinkResolution` is used to opt-in to [a fix](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/37355) that has been added in angular. This will become default from angular 11 onwards.

The enabled `initialNavigation` provides better experience with server side rendering, starting initial navigation before the root component is created and blocking bootstrap until the initial navigation is complete. More details available in [Angular documentation](https://angular.io/api/router/InitialNavigation).

The `RouterModule.forRoot()` method can actually only be called _once_ in an angular application. This makes the default options rather opinionated, which is why the default configurations are carefully selected in Spartacus. The options that have been added/removed can be provided in your custom application with the Angular `ROUTER_CONFIGURATION` injection token. For example:

```typescript
providers: [
  {
    provide: ROUTER_CONFIGURATION,
    useValue: {
      scrollPositionRestoration: 'enabled',
    },
  },
];
```

There's no automation (schematics) planned for this change.

### Page Layout

With version 2.1 we've started to add the page layout based style class to the root element of the application (`cx-storefront`). This is done in addition to the style class added by the `PageLayoutComponent`. The style class on the `PageLayoutComponent` was considered to be too limited, as it would not affect selectors outside the page template component.

The implementation of the page layout based style class has moved from the `PageLayoutComponent` to the `PageTemplateDirective`. This results in a cleaner `PageLayoutComponent` with a constructor that no longer requires the lower level `renderer2` service and `ElementRef`. The constructor reduces to the following signature:

```ts
constructor(protected pageLayoutService: PageLayoutService) {}
```

We've also made the `PageLayoutService` a _protected_ argument, so that it is extensible.

There's no automation (schematics) planned to migrate constructors automatically.

### Static CMS structure config changes

- `default-header-config` and `default-cms-content-config` have been removed. Use `defaultCmsContentProviders` instead to create CMS content.

### Storefront config

- New config `SeoConfig` is imported.

### ContentPageMetaResolver

`ContentPageMetaResolver` has a new required constructor dependency `RoutingPageMetaResolver`.

### LoginFormComponent

It's no longer the responsibility of the `LoginFormComponent` to redirect to the anticipated page (it no longer calls the method `AuthRedirectService.redirect`).
Now the redirecting logic is placed inside the core `AuthService` to support more OAuth flows.

`LoginFormComponent` no longer has properties `loginAsGuest`, `sub` and the method `ngOnDestroy`.

### HttpClientModule is not imported in feature libraries

In most cases **HttpClientModule** should only be imported in the root app module, as importing it in lazy-loaded modules can
cause unexpected side effects regarding the visibility of HTTP_INTERCEPTORS, etc. To fix this, we removed all **HttpClientModule** imports from all our
feature libraries and moved them to recipes.

There's no automation (schematics) planned for this change.

### SSR Engine Optimizations

`NgExpressEngineDecorator` now adds SSR Optimization logic on top of the universal engine by default.

`NgExpressEngineDecorator` was moved from `@spartacus/core` to `@spartacus/setup/ssr`. Also `NgExpressEngineDecorator.get()` method now accepts an additional second parameter to fine-tune SSR optimizations. Passing `null` there will turn off optimizations by removing optimization layer completely (bring back default 2.x behavior).

### Store finder functionality has been moved to a new library

Store finder logic from `@spartacus/core` and store finder components from `@spartacus/storefront` were moved to respective entrypoints in `@spartacus/misc/storefinder`.
Store finder functionality is now also lazy-loadable out of the box.

### StockNotificationComponent

`StockNotificationComponent` has a new required dependency `UserIdService`, but no more depends on `AuthService`.

### CmsComponentsService

Method `CmsComponentsService.getChildRoutes` changed return type from `Route[]` to `CmsComponentChildRoutesConfig`

### Config cmsComponents

The property `childRoutes` of config `cmsComponents` changed type from `Route[]` to `Route[] | CmsComponentChildRoutesConfig`.

### PageMetaService lazy-loading related changes

- Protected method `PageMetaService.getMetaResolver` changed its return type from `PageMateResolver` to `Observable<PageMetaResolver>` so it can take into account page meta resolvers from lazy loaded features.
- PageMetaService's constructor is now using `UnifiedInjector` instead of injecting `PageMetaResolver` token directly.

### ConverterService lazy-loading related changes

- ConverterService constructor is now using `UnifiedInjector` instead of standard `Injector`

### Payload for constructor of PlaceOrder class from Checkout actions requires an additional property

- Checkout.action constructor payload now needs a `termsChecked` additional property

### Property renamed in `SearchConfig` interface

| Old Name   | New Name |
| ---------- | -------- |
| `sortCode` | `sort`   |

### OutletRefDirective unregisters template on destroy

The directive's template in unregistered from outlet on directive destroy.

Before v3.0, when an instance of `OutletRefDirective` was destroyed (removed from DOM), its template remained registered for the Outlet, which could cause the same template being rendered multiple times in case of re-creation of the same `[cxOutletRef]` later on. Now it's fixed.

### CartItemComponent lost members

`CartItemComponent` lost members:

- `@Output()` `view` - instead use `[cxModal]` directive to close modal on link click
- `viewItem()` - instead use `[cxModal]` directive to close modal on link click

### CartItemListComponent

There can be more than one cart entry with the same product code. So now they are referenced by the property `entryNumber` instead of the product code in `CartItemListComponent`.

### AddToCartComponent

`AddToCartComponent` lost members:

- `increment` - use new `numberOfEntriesBeforeAdd` instead
- `cartEntry$` - use `activeCartService.getLastEntry(productCode)` instead

### Auth module refactor

- `@spartacus/core` have new dependency on `angular-oauth2-oidc` library. It's used to handle OAuth login/logout flows in spartacus.

#### Store

- `AuthSelectors` were removed. Selectors related to client token were moved under `ClientAuthSelectors`. User token is no longer stored in ngrx store. To get the token use `AuthStorageService.getToken` method.
- `StateWithAuth` was removed. State related to client token was moved to `StateWithClientAuth`. Data related to user token are stored in `AuthStorageService` and `UserIdService`.
- `AuthState` was removed. State related to client token was moved to `ClientAuthState`. Data related to user token are stored in `AuthStorageService` and `UserIdService`.
- `UserTokenState` was removed. Data related to user token are no longer stored in ngrx store. User token is stored in `AuthStorageService` and user id is stored in `UserIdService`.
- `AUTH_FEATURE` was removed. Client token state is under the key from `CLIENT_AUTH_FEATURE` variable.
- `CLIENT_TOKEN_DATA` variable value changed to `[Client auth] Client Token Data`. Previously it was `[Auth] Client Token Data`.
- `AuthActions` now only contains `Login` and `Logout` action class and `LOGIN`, `LOGOUT` variables with action type. Actions related to client token (`LoadClientToken...`) are now available under `ClientAuthActions` export. Constant `LOGOUT_CUSTOMER_SUPPORT_AGENT` is available in `AsmActions` export. Actions related to user token were removed (`LOAD_USER_TOKEN`, `LOAD_USER_TOKEN_FAIL`, `LOAD_USER_TOKEN_SUCCESS`, `REFRESH_USER_TOKEN`, `REFRESH_USER_TOKEN_FAIL`, `REFRESH_USER_TOKEN_SUCCESS`, `REVOKE_USER_TOKEN`, `REVOKE_USER_TOKEN_FAIL`, `REVOKE_USER_TOKEN_SUCCESS`, `LoadUserToken`, `LoadUserTokenFail`, `LoadUserTokenSuccess`, `RefreshUserToken`, `RefreshUserTokenSuccess`, `RefreshUserTokenFail`, `RevokeUserToken`, `RevokeUserTokenSuccess` and `RevokeUserTokenFail`). Instead initialize user token load, refresh or revoke with methods exposed in `AuthService` and `OAuthLibWrapperService`.

#### Models

- `UserToken` interface was replaced with `AuthToken` interface. New interface contains different properties than the previous to match requirements of `angular-oauth2-oidc` library.
- `AuthenticationToken` interface was removed. Use `AuthToken` or `ClientToken` directly.
- `UserGroupList` interface was replaced with `OrgUnitUserGroupList` interface.
- `UserSignUp` interface was removed. Use `User` interface directly.

#### Guards

- `NotAuthGuard` now returns `Observable<UrlTree>` for homepage for logged in users instead of invoking redirect. Constructor also changed for this guard. `RoutingService` is no longer needed, but `SemanticPathService` and `Router` is now required.
- `AuthGuard` now returns `Observable<UrlTree>` for login page for anonymous users instead of invoking redirect. Constructor also changed for this guard. `RoutingService` is no longer needed, but `SemanticPathService` is now required.

#### Services

- `AuthRedirectService` now requires `AuthRedirectStorageService`. Make sure to provide it. It is an replacement for private variable `redirectUrl`.
- `AuthService` now requires `UserIdService`, `OAuthLibWrapperService`, `AuthStorageService`, `AuthRedirectService` and `RoutingService`.
- `AuthService.authorize` was renamed to `loginWithCredentials`. It returns Promise that resolves after login procedure completes. Instead of dispatching action the method now invokes login method from the OAuth library and sets correct userId, dispatches `Login` action and redirects to previously visited page.
- `AuthService.getOccUserId` was removed from `AuthService`. Use `UserIdService.getUserId` method instead. It is the direct replacement.
- `AuthService.invokeWithUserId` was moved to `UserIdService`. It is available under the same name.
- `AuthService.getUserToken` was removed. To check if user is logged in use `isUserLoggedIn` and to get user id use `UserIdService.getUserId`. If you need access to tokens then use `AuthStorageService.getToken`.
- `AuthService.refreshUserToken` was moved and renamed to `OAuthLibWrapperService.refreshToken`. The behavior changed as well. It not only dispatches action, but performs complete refresh token procedure from OAuth library.
- `AuthService.authorizeWithToken` was removed. Instead you can create object of the shape `AuthToken` and pass to `AuthStorageService.setToken`.
- `AuthService.logout` method changed behavior to redirect to `logout` page. Then the method `AuthService.coreLogout` will be dispatched and perform operations previously done by `logout` method (Logout action dispatch, clearing local state, revoking tokens).
- `AuthService.getClientToken`, `AuthService.refreshClientToken` and `AuthService.isClientTokenLoaded` were moved to `ClientTokenService`.

#### Config

- `AuthConfig` no longer extends `OccConfig`.
- `login` and `revoke` endpoints were removed from `OccConfig`. `login` endpoint is now available under `tokenEndpoint` property in `AuthConfig`. `revoke` endpoint is available under `revokeEndpoint` property in `AuthConfig`.
- `storageSync` configuration for `auth` branch in ngrx store was removed. State of token, userId is now synchronized with `AuthStatePersistenceService`. Override this service if you want to sync more properties to localStorage (eg. `refresh_token`).

### KymaModule

`KymaModule` were removed with all it's code. We expose the same functionality through configuration of auth.

To fetch OpenId token along with access token in Resource Owner Password Flow you have to use following configuration.

```ts
authentication: {
  client_id: 'client4kyma',
  client_secret: 'secret',
  OAuthLibConfig: {
    responseType: 'id_token',
    scope: 'openid',
    customTokenParameters: ['token_type', 'id_token'],
  }
}
```

Then you can access OpenId token with `OAuthLibWrapperService.getIdToken` method. For more options related to OpenId token look into `angular-oauth2-oidc` library documentation.

### ASM module refactor

- `getCustomerSupportAgentTokenState`, `getCustomerSupportAgentToken` and `getCustomerSupportAgentTokenLoading` were removed from `AsmSelectors`. To get token use `AuthStorageService.getToken` and `AsmAuthStorageService.getTokenTarget` to check if it belongs to CS agent.
- Effects in `AsmModule` now instead of `makeErrorSerializable` use `normalizeHttpError` for error transformation.
- `storageSync` configuration for `asm` branch in ngrx store was removed. State of ASM UI, tokens is now synchronized with `AsmStatePersistenceService`.
- `CSAGENT_TOKEN_DATA` variable was removed.
- `AsmState.csagentToken` was removed. Token is now stored in `AuthStorageService`. Check `AsmAuthStorageService.getTokenTarget` to validate if the token belongs to the CS agent.
- `AsmActions` no longer contains actions related to customer agent token (`LoadCustomerSupportAgentToken`, `LoadCustomerSupportAgentTokenFail`, `LoadCustomerSupportAgentTokenSuccess`). Instead interact directly with `CsAgentAuthService`.
- `CustomerSupportAgentTokenInterceptor` interceptor was removed. Token and error handling for CS agent requests are now handled by `AuthInterceptor` and `AsmAuthHttpHeaderService`.

#### AsmAuthService

Service was renamed to `CsAgentAuthService`. `AsmAuthService` is now responsible for making `AuthService` aware of ASM and adjusts it for CS agent support.

- `AsmAuthService.authorizeCustomerSupportAgent` was moved to `CsAgentAuthService`. It now performs full login flow for CS agent and resolves when it completes.
- `AsmAuthService.startCustomerEmulationSession` was moved to `CsAgentAuthService`. Behavior haven't changed.
- `AsmAuthService.isCustomerEmulationToken` was removed. To check token use `AuthStorageService.getToken` and to check if it belongs to CS agent use `AsmAuthStorageService.getTokenTarget`.
- `AsmAuthService.getCustomerSupportAgentToken` was removed. To check token use `AuthStorageService.getToken` and to check if it belongs to CS agent use `AsmAuthStorageService.getTokenTarget`.
- `AsmAuthService.getCustomerSupportAgentTokenLoading` was moved to `CsAgentAuthService`. Warning! It is not implemented there yet.
- `AsmAuthService.logoutCustomerSupportAgent` was moved to `CsAgentAuthService`. It performs logout procedure for CS agent and resolves when it completes.

### CDC library

- `CdcUserTokenEffects` now uses `normalizeHttpError` for error serialization.
- `CdcUserTokenEffects.loadCdcUserToken$` effect now calls `CdcAuthService.loginWithToken` instead of dispatching `AuthActions.LoadUserTokenSuccess` action.
- `CdcAuthService` no longer extends `AuthService`.
- `CdcAuthService` have new required dependencies. `AuthStorageService`, `UserIdService`, `GlobalMessageService` and `AuthRedirectService` needs to provided.
- `CdcAuthService.authorizeWithCustomCdcFlow` method was renamed to `loginWithCustomCdcFlow`.
- `CdcAuthService.logout` method was removed. Now CDC hooks into logout process, by providing `CdcLogoutGuard` as `LogoutGuard`.
- `CdcJsService` now requires `AuthService` as `CdcAuthService` no longer extends it. `AuthService` should be passed after `CdcAuthService`. `CdcAuthService` is available in service under `cdcAuth` and `AuthService` is available under `auth` property. Additionally `GlobalMessageService` and `AuthRedirectService` are not longer required. We don't provide automatic migration for that constructor change!

### OrderDetailHeadlineComponent

Order detail headline component has been removed.

### OrderDetailShippingComponent

The following functions have been removed from the component:

- getAddressCardContent()
- getBillingAddressCardContent()
- getPaymentCardContent()
- getShippingMethodCardContent()

### OrderConfirmationOverviewComponent

The following functions have been removed from the component:

- getAddressCardContent()
- getDeliveryModeCardContent()
- getPaymentInfoCardContent()
- getBillingAddressCardContent()

### The type of BaseSiteService is changed

Before it was:

- `BaseSiteService implements SiteContext<string>`

Now it is:

- `BaseSiteService implements SiteContext<BaseSite>`

The return type of the function `getAll()` is changed from:

- `getAll(): Observable<string[]>`

to:

- `getAll(): Observable<BaseSite[]>`

The return type of the function `setActive(baseSite: string)` is changed from:

- `setActive(baseSite: string): Subscription`

to:

- `setActive(baseSite: string): void`

### ConfigInitializerService's constructor has an additional parameter added

Before it was:

```ts
  constructor(
    @Inject(Config) protected config: any,
    @Optional()
    @Inject(CONFIG_INITIALIZER_FORROOT_GUARD)
    protected initializerGuard
  ) {}
```

Now it is:

```ts
  constructor(
    @Inject(Config) protected config: any,
    @Optional()
    @Inject(CONFIG_INITIALIZER_FORROOT_GUARD)
    protected initializerGuard,
    @Inject(RootConfig) protected rootConfig: any
```

### CmsComponentsService constructor has an additional parameter added

Before it was:

```ts
  constructor(
    protected config: CmsConfig,
    @Inject(PLATFORM_ID) protected platformId: Object
  ) {}
```

Now it is:

```ts
  constructor(
    protected config: CmsConfig,
    @Inject(PLATFORM_ID) protected platformId: Object,
    protected featureModules?: FeatureModulesService
  ) {}
```

#### configurationFactory was removed

Configuration merging logic now uses separate tokens for default configuration and user configuration.

### CheckoutProgressMobileBottomComponent

- `routerState$` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `activeStepUrl` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `steps` property has been removed - use `steps$` instead.

### CheckoutProgressMobileTopComponent

- `routerState$` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `activeStepUrl` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `steps` property has been removed - use `steps$` instead.

### CheckoutProgressComponent

- `routerState$` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `activeStepUrl` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `steps` property has been removed - use `steps$` instead.

### DeliveryModeComponent

- `checkoutStepUrlNext` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `checkoutStepUrlPrevious` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.

### OrderDetailShippingComponent

- `getPaymentCardContent` was removed, please check the `OrderOverviewComponent` instead.
- `getShippingMethodCardContent` was removed, please check the `OrderOverviewComponent` instead.
- `getAddressCardContent` was removed, please check the `OrderOverviewComponent` instead.
- `getBillingAddressCardContent` was removed, please check the `OrderOverviewComponent` instead.

### PaymentMethodComponent

- `checkoutStepUrlNext` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `checkoutStepUrlPrevious` property has been removed. This logic is now handled by `checkoutStepService`.
- `goNext` method has been renamed to `next`.
- `goPrevious` method has been renamed to `back`.

### ShippingAddressComponent

- `existingAddresses$` property has been removed.
- `newAddressFormManuallyOpened` property has been renamed to `addressFormOpened`.
- `goNext` method has been renamed to `next`.
- `goPrevious` method has been renamed to `back`.

### CheckoutAuthGuard

- `canActivate` method now returns type `Observable<boolean | UrlTree`.

### CheckoutConfigService

- `steps` property has been removed - use `checkoutStepService` instead.
- `checkoutStepService` method has been removed - use `checkoutStepRoute` method in `checkoutStepService` instead.
- `getFirstCheckoutStepRoute` method has been removed - use `getFirstCheckoutStepRoute` method in `checkoutStepService` instead.
- `getFirstCheckoutStepRoute` method has been removed - use `getFirstCheckoutStepRoute` method in `checkoutStepService` instead.
- `getNextCheckoutStepUrl` method has been removed - use `getNextCheckoutStepUrl` method in `checkoutStepService` instead.
- `getPreviousCheckoutStepUrl` method has been removed - use `getPreviousCheckoutStepUrl` method in `checkoutStepService` instead.
- `getCurrentStepIndex` method has been removed - use `getCurrentStepIndex` method in `checkoutStepService` instead.
- `CheckoutConfigService` no longer uses `RoutingConfigService`

### Method placeOrder in CheckoutAdapter, OccCheckoutAdapter and CheckoutConnector

The method `placeOrder` of `CheckoutAdapter`, `OccCheckoutAdapter` and `CheckoutConnector` now has 3rd, a new required argument `termsChecked: boolean`.

### BreakpointService

- Public getter method `window()` was removed. Instead directly reference the `windowRef`.
- Protected method `getClosest` was removed. Instead use the method `getBreakpoint`.

### ProtectedRoutesGuard

The return type of the method `ProtectedRoutesGuard.canActivate` changed from `Observable<boolean>` to `Observable<boolean | UrlTree>`

### ItemCounterComponent

- The component now implements `OnInit` and `OnDestroy`.

### UpdateEmailComponent

- Method `onSuccess` changed its return type from `void` to `Promise<void>` in order to wait for the logout to complete before updating the email.

### StorefrontComponent

- `collapseMenuIfClickOutside` method param type changed from `MouseEvent` to `any`. Behaviour has also been modified to only trigger when header element is passed to the function.

### StarRatingComponent

- The component uses `HostBinding` to bind to css custom properties (available since angular 9), which is why we no longer need the `ElementRef` and `Renderer2` in the constructor. There's a automated constructor migration added for the 3.0 release.
- ngOnInit is no longer used
- the `setRate` no longer requires a 2nd argument (`force`)
- the `setRateOnEvent()` method is replaced by reusing the `setRate()` (this is also fixing a bug), we bind `keydown.space` now directly form the view. The more generic `keydown` output binding is removed.

### CartNotEmptyGuard

- Method `canActivate` changed its return type from `Observable<boolean>` to `Observable<boolean | UrlTree>` to support OAuth flows.
- new required constructor dependency `SemanticPathService`.
- new required constructor dependency `Router`.
- no longer uses `RoutingService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `Router` and `SemanticPathService`.

### NotCheckoutAuthGuard

- Method `canActivate` changed its return type from `Observable<boolean>` to `Observable<boolean | UrlTree>` to support OAuth flows.

### ProductVariantGuard

- Method `canActivate` now requires a parameter of type `ActivatedRouteSnapshot`.

### LogoutGuard

- Method `canActivate` changed its return type from `Observable<boolean>` to `Observable<boolean | UrlTree>` to support OAuth flows.
- Method `logout` return type has been changed from `void` to `Promise<any>` to support OAuth flows.
- Method `redirect` was removed. Use `getRedirectUrl` instead.

### CurrentProductService

- `getProduct` method will now only emit distinct product.

### MultiCartStatePersistenceService

- `sync` method has been renamed to `initSync`.

### ProductReferenceService

- `get` method has been removed. Use `getProductReferences` and `loadProductReferences` methods instead.

### LanguageService

- Method `setActive` changed its return type from `Subscription` to `void`.

### CurrencyService

- Method `setActive` changed its return type from `Subscription` to `void`.

### OccCmsComponentAdapter

The OCC CMS component API in SAP Commerce Cloud before version 1905 was using a POST method. This has changed in 1905 (using GET going forward). Spartacus has supported both version from version 1.0 by using a `legacy` flag to distinguish this backend API behavior. With release 3.0 we maintain the support for the pre 1905 CMS component API, but the implementation has moved to a separate adapter. With that change, we're also dropping the `legacy` flag in the OCC configuration.

### UserState

The interface for the ngrx state `UserState` now has new required properties: `replenishmentOrders`, `replenishmentOrder` and `costCenters`.

### CloseAccountModalComponent

The property `userToken$` of `CloseAccountModalComponent` has been replaced with `isLoggedIn$` of type `Observable<boolean>`.

### BaseSiteState

The interface `BaseSiteState` has now a new required property `entities: BaseSiteEntities`.

### UserService

- Method `loadOrderList` of `UserService` also loads replenishment orders when the url contains a replenishment code.

### UserOrderService

- Method `getTitles` of `UserOrderService` will load titles when it is empty.

## Automated Migrations for Version 3

- `CheckoutProgressMobileBottomComponent` no longer uses `CheckoutConfig`, `RoutingService` and `RoutingConfigService`. These services usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `CheckoutProgressMobileBottomComponent`.
- `CheckoutAuthGuard` no longer uses `RoutingService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `Router` and `SemanticPathService`. Additional services `UserService` and `GlobalMessageService` also need to be provided to `CheckoutAuthGuard`.
- `CheckoutProgressMobileTopComponent` no longer uses `CheckoutConfig`, `RoutingService` and `RoutingConfigService`. These services usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `CheckoutProgressMobileTopComponent`.
- `CheckoutProgressComponent` no longer uses `CheckoutConfig`, `RoutingService` and `RoutingConfigService`. These services usage was replaced with the corresponding methods form `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `CheckoutProgressComponent`.
- `DeliveryModeSetGuard` no longer uses `CheckoutConfigService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods form `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `DeliveryModeSetGuard`.
- `DeliveryModeComponent` no longer uses `RoutingService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods form `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `DeliveryModeComponent`.
- `LoginFormComponent` no longer uses `ActivatedRoute`, `CheckoutConfigService` and `AuthRedirectService`. The logic using these services was moved to a different component.
- `OrderDetailShippingComponent` no longer uses `TranslationService`. The logic using these services was moved to `OrderDetailShippingComponent`.
- `PaymentDetailsSetGuard` no longer uses `CheckoutConfigService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods form `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `PaymentDetailsSetGuard`.
- `PaymentMethodComponent` no longer uses `CheckoutConfigService` and `RoutingService`. These services usage was replaced with the corresponding methods form `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `PaymentMethodComponent`.
- `ReviewSubmitComponent` no longer uses `CheckoutConfigService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods form `CheckoutStepService`. In addition, `PaymentTypeService`, `CheckoutCostCenterService` and `UserCostCenterService` need to be provided to `ReviewSubmitComponent`.
- `ShippingAddressSetGuard` no longer uses `CheckoutConfigService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods form `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `ShippingAddressSetGuard`.
- `ShippingAddressComponent` no longer uses `CheckoutConfigService` and `RoutingService`. These services usage was replaced with the corresponding methods form `CheckoutStepService`. This service needs to be provided to `ShippingAddressComponent`.
- `MultiCartService` now requires the additional provider `UserIdService`.
- `PageSlotComponent` no longer uses `CmsComponentsService`. This service usage was replaces with the `PageSlotService`.
- `ForbiddenHandler` now uses `GlobalMessageService`, `AuthService`, `OccEndpointsService`.
- `CheckoutPaymentService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `CheckoutService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `CustomerCouponService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `OrderReturnRequestService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `UserAddressService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `UserConsentService` now also requires `UserIdService`.
- `UserInterestsService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `UserNotificationPreferenceService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `UserOrderService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`. Now also requires `RoutingService`.
- `UserPaymentService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `UserService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `UserIdService`.
- `ActiveCartService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaces with the `UserIdService`.
- `CartVoucherService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaces with the `UserIdService`.
- `SelectiveCartService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaces with the `UserIdService`.
- `WishListService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaces with the `UserIdService`.
- `CheckoutDeliveryService` no longer uses `AuthService`. This service usage was replaces with the `UserIdService`.
- `UnauthorizedErrorHandler` has been removed.
- `StarRatingComponent` no longer uses `ElementRef` and `Renderer2`.
- `NotCheckoutAuthGuard` no longer uses `RoutingService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `SemanticPathService` and `Router`.
- `StoreFinderSearchConfig` has been removed. `SearchConfig` should be used instead.
- `ForgotPasswordComponent` now also requires `AuthConfigService`.
- `OrderHistoryComponent` now also requires `UserReplenishmentOrderService`.
- `OrderReturnGuard` no longer uses `RoutingService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `Router` and `SemanticPathService`.
- `OrderCancellationGuard` no longer uses `RoutingService`. This service usage was replaced with the corresponding methods from `Router` and `SemanticPathService`.
