# Technical Changes in Spartacus 4.0

## Before migrating to Spartacus 4.0

Before you migrate to version 4.0 of libraries we highly recommend to switch to new app structure and new feature libraries. It's easier to do migration in multiple small steps (migrating to new app structure, switching to extracted feature libs and then migrating to 4.0), where you can make sure that everything still works as before after every step. Read the next chapter if you need more insights why we introduce this change.

### Reasons for migration to new app structure

Before the 3.0 release we started to separate libraries based on it's responsibility. With 3.0 we already released few libraries in separate packages (eg. @commerce-storefront-toolset/organization, @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefinder). We kept moving more libraries in the minor 3.x releases as well. We tried to do that in a no breaking-changes manner. However with each major release we want to pay off tech debt we accumulated during minor releases. Extracted libraries are huge contributor to tech debt, as we keep the same functionality in 2 places. With 4.0 release we will remove the functionality from core libraries (@commerce-storefront-toolset/core, @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront, @commerce-storefront-toolset/assets and @commerce-storefront-toolset/styles) that was already extracted to separate libraries in minor releases.

Along the way we discovered that we had to change few of the bigger modules to accommodate these changes (eg. `B2cStoreFrontModule`, `StorefrontModule` or `CmsLibModule`).

So that's why we recommend to switch to new app structure that is not using these modules and to switch to new feature libraries if they exists for the features you are using. Below you can find generic guide on how to do it. After that migration to 4.0 should be easier.

### Migrating to new, reference app structure

Before you start to migrate to new app structure read the reasoning behind the change [here](https://sap.github.io/spartacus-docs/reference-app-structure/).

So let's migrate to the new structure step by step.

1. Create `SpartacusModule` under `app/spartacus/spartacus.module.ts` path and add it to `imports` in `AppModule`.
2. Add `BaseStorefrontModule` to imports and exports of `SpartacusModule`. This modules is exported from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` library.
3. Create `SpartacusFeaturesModule` under `app/spartacus/spartacus-features.module.ts` path and add it to `imports` in `SpartacusModule`.
4. Create `SpartacusConfigurationModule` under `app/spartacus/spartacus-configuration.module.ts` path and add it to `imports` in `SpartacusModule`.
5. Move spartacus configuration to `SpartacusConfigurationModule`. That would be the configurations you pass with `provideConfig`, `provideConfigFactory` or with `withConfig` methods from some of the modules (eg. `B2cStorefrontModule`, `ConfigModule`). We recommend to use `provideConfig` or `provideConfigFactory` in module providers to configure spartacus.
6. Configure `AppRoutingModule`. If you don't have this module, first create it under `app/app-routing.module.ts`. Don't forget to import this module in `AppModule`. In `AppRoutingModule` imports configure `RouterModule` with these 3 options:

    ```ts
    RouterModule.forRoot([], {
      anchorScrolling: 'enabled',
      relativeLinkResolution: 'corrected',
      initialNavigation: 'enabled',
    }),
    ```

    Previously this module was configured in `StorefrontModule`, which is now deprecated and removed in version 4.0.

7. Configure ngrx modules in `AppModule`. They were part of the `StorefrontModule`, but similarly like `RouterModule` we require this configuration to be present in application. You need to add to `imports` 2 modules: `StoreModule.forRoot({})` and `EffectsModule.forRoot([])`. Import these modules from `@ngrx/store` and from `@ngrx/effects`.

    ```ts
    @NgModule({
      imports: [
        AppRoutingModule,
        StoreModule.forRoot({}),
        EffectsModule.forRoot([]),
        SpartacusModule,

        // then the rest of your custom modules...
      ],
      ...
    ```

8. Now let's focus on replacing deprecated Spartacus grouping modules

    1. Migrating `B2cStorefrontModule`.
        - config from `B2cStorefrontModule.withConfig` should be already moved to `SpartacusConfigurationModule` and provided with `provideConfig`
        - first add `HttpClientModule` to imports in `AppModule` if it's not present there
        - now add in `SpartacusFeaturesModule` module imports two modules from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`: `StorefrontModule` and `CmsLibModule` (those modules are removed in 4.0, but we want to migrate the modules step by step. Migration of those modules will be covered in next steps).
        - this module provided few default configs, so add them to your `SpartacusConfigurationModule` if you rely on them

            ```ts
            provideConfig({
              pwa: {
                enabled: true,
                addToHomeScreen: true,
              },
            }),
            provideConfig(layoutConfig),
            provideConfig(mediaConfig),
            ...defaultCmsContentProviders,
            ```

        - remove usage of `B2cStorefrontModule` from your app

    2. Migrating `B2bStorefrontModule`.
        - config from `B2bStorefrontModule.withConfig` should be already moved to `SpartacusConfigurationModule` and provided with `provideConfig`
        - add `HttpClientModule` to imports in `AppModule` if it's not present there
        - add in `SpartacusFeaturesModule` imports few modules: `StorefrontModule`, `CmsLibModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` (those modules are removed in 4.0, but we want to migrate the modules step by step. Migration of those modules will be covered in next steps) and `CostCenterModule.forRoot()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core`
        - this module provided few default configs, so add them to your `SpartacusConfigurationModule` if you rely on them

            ```ts
            provideConfig(layoutConfig),
            provideConfig(mediaConfig),
            provideConfig(defaultB2bOccConfig),
            provideConfig(defaultB2bCheckoutConfig),
            ...defaultCmsContentProviders,
            ```

        - remove usage of `B2bStorefrontModule` from your app

    3. Migrating `StorefrontModule`
        - you should have configured `RouterModule` in `AppRoutingModule`
        - in `AppModule` you should already have `StoreModule.forRoot({})` and `EffectsModule.forRoot([])` present in `imports`
        - add `AsmModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` to imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - add `StorefrontFoundationModule` to `SpartacusFeaturesModule` imports.
        - Add `MainModule` to `SpartacusFeaturesModule` imports
        - Add `SmartEditModule.forRoot()`, `PersonalizationModule.forRoot()` and `OccModule.forRoot()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` to imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - Add `ProductDetailsPageModule` and `ProductListingPageModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` to imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - Add `ExternalRoutesModule.forRoot()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` to imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - remove usage of `StorefrontModule` from you app

    4. Migrating `CmsLibModule`
        - add imports listed below from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` directly to imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`:

            ```ts
            AnonymousConsentManagementBannerModule,
            AsmModule, // remove if it's already present
            HamburgerMenuModule,
            CmsParagraphModule,
            LinkModule,
            BannerModule,
            CategoryNavigationModule,
            NavigationModule,
            FooterNavigationModule,
            BreadcrumbModule,
            SearchBoxModule,
            SiteContextSelectorModule,
            QualtricsModule,
            AddressBookModule,
            OrderHistoryModule,
            OrderCancellationModule,
            OrderReturnModule,
            ReturnRequestListModule,
            ReturnRequestDetailModule,
            ProductListModule,
            ProductFacetNavigationModule,
            ProductTabsModule,
            ProductCarouselModule,
            ProductReferencesModule,
            OrderDetailsModule,
            PaymentMethodsModule,
            ConsentManagementModule,
            CartComponentModule,
            TabParagraphContainerModule,
            OrderConfirmationModule,
            ProductImagesModule,
            ProductSummaryModule,
            ProductVariantsModule,
            ProductIntroModule,
            BannerCarouselModule,
            MyCouponsModule,
            WishListModule,
            NotificationPreferenceModule,
            MyInterestsModule,
            StockNotificationModule,
            ReplenishmentOrderHistoryModule,
            ReplenishmentOrderConfirmationModule,
            ReplenishmentOrderDetailsModule,
            UserComponentModule,
            CloseAccountModule,
            UpdateEmailModule,
            UpdatePasswordModule,
            UpdateProfileModule,
            ForgotPasswordModule,
            ResetPasswordModule,
            ```

        - remove usage of `CmsLibModule` from your app

    5. Migrating `MainModule`
        - add `AnonymousConsentsDialogModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` into imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - remove usage of `MainModule` from you app

    6. Migrating `StorefrontFoundationModule`
        - add `AuthModule.forRoot()`, `AnonymousConsentsModule.forRoot()`, `CartModule.forRoot()`, `CheckoutModule.forRoot()`, `UserModule.forRoot()` and `ProductModule.forRoot()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` into imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - add `CartPageEventModule`, `PageEventModule` and `ProductPageEventModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` into imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - remove usage of `StorefrontFoundationModule` from your app

    7. Migrating `OccModule`
        - add `AsmOccModule`, `CartOccModule`, `CheckoutOccModule`, `ProductOccModule`, `UserOccModule`, `CostCenterOccModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` to imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - remove usage of `OccModule` from your app

    8. Migrating `EventsModule`
        - add `CartPageEventModule`, `PageEventModule` and `ProductPageEventModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` to imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule`
        - remove usage of `EventsModule` from your app

    9. That's it. You migrated to new app structure. However there is one more thing that we recommend to do. All these huge modules that we just migrated were created to make it easy to create complete spartacus application. What we mean by "complete" is the spartacus with a lot of features enabled out of the box. You might've not even used those features and yet they landed in your application files making your app bigger and by that increasing your application initial load time. As we just replaced these bootstrap modules with granular modules it gives you a great opportunity to remove feature modules that you don't need.

        Here is a list of common features that you might not use:
          - if you don't use ASM feature you can remove from `SpartacusFeaturesModule` imports of `AsmModule` and `AsmOccModule`
          - if you don't use Smartedit you can remove from `SpartacusFeaturesModule` import of `SmartEditModule`
          - if you don't use Qualtrics you can remove from `SpartacusFeaturesModule` import of `QualtricsModule`
          - if you don't use product variants you can remove from `SpartacusFeaturesModule` imports of `ProductVariantsModule`
          - if you don't support replenishments order you can remove from `SpartacusFeaturesModule` imports of `ReplenishmentOrderHistoryModule`, `ReplenishmentOrderConfirmationModule` and `ReplenishmentOrderDetailsModule`

        There are many more modules that you might not need, so we recommend just going through all the imports in `SpartacusFeaturesModule` and verifying if you use it or not. If not just remove it and make your application smaller.

### Upgrade Angular libraries first
Before upgrading Spartacus to 4.0, you need first to upgrade Angular to the version 12 and upgrade Angular 3rd party dependencies like `@ng-bootstrap/ng-bootstrap` or `@ng-select/ng-select` to the versions compatible with Angular 12.

```bash
ng update @ng-bootstrap/ng-bootstrap@10 @ng-select/ng-select@7 @angular/core@12 @angular/cli@12
```

For more, see [the official Angular upgrade guide](https://update.angular.io/).

### Upgrade Spartacus to 3.4.x first
You must first upgrade all of your `@commerce-storefront-toolset` libraries to the latest 3.4.x release before you begin upgrading to Spartacus 4.0. For more information, see [Upgrading Spartacus Libraries to a New Minor Version](https://sap.github.io/spartacus-docs/release-information/#upgrading-spartacus-libraries-to-a-new-minor-version).

### Finally, upgrade Spartacus to 4.0
Spartacus 4.0 includes many new features and fixes. Since this update is a major release, some of the updates may also be breaking changes for your application. In this case, additional work on your side may be required to fix issues that result from upgrading from 3.4.x to 4.0.

To update to version 4.0 of Spartacus, run the following command in the workspace of your Angular application:

```bash
ng update @commerce-storefront-toolset/schematics@4
```

When the update has finished running, inspect your code for comments that begin with `// TODO:Spartacus`. For detailed information about each added comment, see [Detailed List of Changes](#detailed-list-of-changes) below.

## Augmentable Config interface

In spartacus we expose quite some number of methods that accepts configuration. Up until now we didn't do a great job of typing those methods. You might notice that usually when we provide configuration we use type assertions (eg. `provideConfig(<I18nConfig>{i18n: {...}})`) to improve type safety and autocomplete functionality.

In version 4.0 we changed the way we work with `Config`. Now each feature contributes to this interface thanks to module augmentation TS feature. Thanks to that `Config` now correctly describe all configuration options you can pass to spartacus.

With that changed we are able to change the type of all the methods that accept configuration from `any` to `Config`. You no longer have to use type assertion to benefit from better type safety and DX.

We still keep the individual configs (eg. `I18nConfig`, `AsmConfig`, `AuthConfig`, etc.), but all those interfaces also contribute to `Config` interface.

When you need to access configuration object you can still in constructor use following syntax: `protected config: AsmConfig` (this will only hint for you `AsmConfig` properties), but you now have the option to do it with `protected config: Config`. Using the latter is recommended when you want to access complete configuration with type safety (eg. `FeatureConfig` and `MediaConfig` at the same time).

This change should be for painless for most of the users, but it will affect you if you have custom configuration in your application.

Let's show it on an example with special configuration for theme:

```ts
// existing code
@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
  useExisting: Config,
})
export abstract class ThemeConfig {
  theme?: {
    dark?: boolean;
  };
}

// required changes

// You need to augment `Config` interface from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` to be able to provide this config with `provideConfig` method
declare module '@commerce-storefront-toolset/core' {
  interface Config extends ThemeConfig {}
}
```

You don't need to change anything in a places where you use this config, but in a place where you declare you custom config you have to instruct Typescript that `Config` interface also have `theme` property with `dark` option. Without it Typescript will complain that you try to pass properties which are not part of `Config`.

We still recommend making top-level configuration properties optional, so you can pass the configuration in multiple chunks and not in a single place.

## Detailed List of Changes

#### Config providers

- first parameter of function `provideConfig` changed from type `any` to `Config`
- first parameter of function `provideDefaultConfig` changed from type `any` to `Config`

#### ConfigModule

- parameter of method `withConfig` changed type from `object` to `Config`
- parameter of method `forRoot` changed type from `any` to `Config`

#### Config injection tokens

- `Config` injection token was replaced with injectable `Config` abstract class.
- `ConfigChunk` injection token is now of type `Config[]` (from `object[]`)
- `DefaultConfigChunk` injection token is now of type `Config[]` (from `object[]`)

#### StorefrontConfig

This type was removed, as it's purpose is now covered with augmentable `Config` interface. Replace usage of `StorefrontConfig` with `Config`.

#### ConfigInitializerService

- Constructor changed from:

    ```ts
    constructor(
        @Inject(Config) protected config: any,
        @Optional()
        @Inject(CONFIG_INITIALIZER_FORROOT_GUARD)
        protected initializerGuard,
        @Inject(RootConfig) protected rootConfig: any
      ) {}
    ```

    to

    ```ts
    constructor(
        protected config: Config,
        @Optional()
        @Inject(CONFIG_INITIALIZER_FORROOT_GUARD)
        protected initializerGuard: any,
        @Inject(RootConfig) protected rootConfig: Config
      ) {}
    ```

- Method `getStable` return signature changed from `Observable<any>` to `Observable<Config>`.
- Method `getStableConfig` return signature changed from `Promise<any>` to `Promise<Config>`.

#### Config validators

- type `ConfigValidator` changed from `(config: any) => string | void` to `(config: Config) => string | void`
- first parameter of function `validateConfig` changed from `any` to `Config`

#### ConfigInitializer

- `ConfigInitializer.configFactory` signature changed from `() => Promise<any>` to `() => Promise<Config>`.

#### ConfigurationService

- `unifiedConfig$` type changed from `Observable<any>` to `Observable<Config>`
- `config` type changed from `any` to `Config`
- constructor changed from

    ```ts
    constructor(
      @Inject(RootConfig) protected rootConfig: any,
      @Inject(DefaultConfig) protected defaultConfig: any,
      protected unifiedInjector: UnifiedInjector,
      @Inject(Config) config: any
    )
    ```

    to

    ```ts
    constructor(
      @Inject(RootConfig) protected rootConfig: Config,
      @Inject(DefaultConfig) protected defaultConfig: Config,
      protected unifiedInjector: UnifiedInjector,
      config: Config
    )
    ```

#### Feature config utils

- `isFeatureLevel` first parameter type changed from `unknown` to `Config`
- `isFeatureEnabled` first parameter type changed from `unknown` to `Config`

#### MediaService

- constructor changed from

    ```ts
    constructor(
      @Inject(Config) protected config: StorefrontConfig,
      protected breakpointService: BreakpointService
    ) {}
    ```

    to

    ```ts
    constructor(
      protected config: Config
    ) {}
    ```
- `getMedia` now supports `role` attribute



### ModalService
- `ModalService` no longer depends on `FeatureConfigService`. But `ApplicationRef` is now a new required dependency.


#### Product configurator configuration

- `productConfigurator` configuration option is now optional (properties `updateDebounceTime` and `cpq` from this options are now also optional)
- `backend.cpq` configuration option is now optional

#### SmartEditConfig

- `smartEdit` property is optional
- `smartEdit.storefrontPreviewRoute` property is optional
- `smartEdit.allowOrigin` property is optional

#### PersonalizationConfig

- `personalization` property is optional

#### CmsStructureConfig

- `cmsStructure` property is optional

#### PageComponentModule

- Exposes `forRoot()` method, to minimize side-effects of frequent import in dependant modules. `PageComponentModule.forRoot()` is now imported in `BaseStorefrontModule`.

## Breaking Changes Introduced in 4.0

### StoreFinderService

- Added `platformId` injection to constructor.
- Methods `getStoreLatitude()` and `getStoreLongitude()` have been moved to this service from removed `StoreDataService`.

### StoreDataService

- Service has been removed and functions moved to `StoreFinderService`.

### AbstractStoreItemComponent

- `StoreDataService` has been replaced with `StoreFinderService`.

### StoreFinderListItemComponent

- `StoreDataService` has been replaced with `StoreFinderService`.

### StoreFinderListComponent

- `StoreDataService` has been replaced with `StoreFinderService`.

### StoreFinderStoreDescriptionComponent

- `StoreDataService` has been replaced with `StoreFinderService`.

### GoogleMapRendererService

- `StoreDataService` has been replaced with `StoreFinderService`.
- `ExternalJsFileLoader` has been replaced with `ScriptLoader`.

### ScheduleComponent

- `ngOnChanges()` has been changed to `ngOnInit()` along with corresponding class implementations (ie. implements `OnChanges` to `OnInit`).
- `displayDays` variable has been removed. Use `weekDays` instead.
- `StoreDataService` has been removed`.
- Methods `getStoreOpeningTime()`, `getStoreClosingTime()`, `getInitialDate()` have been removed. Use `weekDayOpeningList` from `location` instead.
### PromotionService
PromotionService is deleted.  The promotions can directly be found on the order or cart.  Use other existing services to retrieve the Order or cart.

The order promotions are in the order/cart attributes `appliedOrderPromotions` and `potentialOrderPromotions`

The product promotions for order/cart entries are now available via the attribute `entries[].promotions`


### SavedCartDetailsActionComponent
 - Removed `ClearCheckoutService` from constructor.

### SavedCartListComponent
- Removed `ClearCheckoutService` from constructor.

### SavedCartFormDialogComponent
- Removed `ClearCheckoutService` from constructor.

### AddressBookComponentService
Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/core
Class: AddressBookComponentService
Change: constructor parameter `checkoutDeliveryService: CheckoutDeliveryService` is removed.
Instead, the `CheckoutEventListener` from the checkout lib listens for the new address change events and resets the checkout delivery accordingly.

### AddressBookComponent
Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/core
Class: AddressBookComponent
Change: Two constructor parameters are removed.  First the constructor parameter `checkoutDeliveryService: CheckoutDeliveryService` is removed.
AddressBookComponent does not call `CheckoutDeliveryService.clearCheckoutDeliveryDetails()` anymore when an address is changed.  Instead, `AddressBookComponentService` fires events.  See `AddressBookComponentService` migration doc.

The second constructor parameters removed is `userAddressService: UserAddressService`. `UserAddressService` interactions are now encapsulated in `AddressBookComponentService`.


### AddressFormComponent
Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/core
Change: constructor parameter `checkoutDeliveryService: CheckoutDeliveryService` is removed.
AddressFormComponent now uses the new address verification function from  `UserAddressService` called `verifyAddress` instead of the `verifyAddress` function from `CheckoutDeliveryService`.  `UserAddressService.verifyAddress` does not use the ngrx store under the hood.

Change: `TranslationService` is a new, required constructor dependency.
AddressFormComponent now uses translations to show a configurable default title option instead of a hard coded title.

### UserAddressService
Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/core
Change: Two new required constructor parameters `userAddressConnector: UserAddressConnector` and `command: CommandService`

### CheckoutDetailsLoadedGuard
Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront
CheckoutDetailsLoadedGuard was not used and is now removed.

### PaymentDetailsSetGuard
Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront
PaymentDetailsSetGuard was not used and is now removed.

### ShippingAddressSetGuard
Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront
ShippingAddressSetGuard was not used and is now removed.

### DeliveryModeSetGuard
Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront
DeliveryModeSetGuard was not used and is now removed.


## New Checkout Library

Spartacus 4.0 introduces the checkout library.  The checkout related code is moved out of `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` and `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefrontlib` into one of the checkout lib's entry points.  The checkout library is split into these entry points:

```
@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/assets 
The checkout related i18n keys are moved here.

@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components
Checkout related UI code is moved here. This includes components, guards and ui services.

@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core
The checkout facade API implementation are moved here, as well as connectors, event builder, event listener, models, other services, and state management.

@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ
The checkout related OCC code is moved here. This includes the checkout related adapters and converters.

@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root
The root entry point is, by convention, meant to always be eager loaded.  It contains the config, events, facades, http interceptors and models.

@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/styles
The checkout related scss styles are moved here.
```

Most of the code is moved unchanged, but some classes required changes after they were moved.  See the section below for the list:

## (start) Changes in the classes carried over to the @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout lib

### Use facades instead of services

Some services are now available through facades. Facades should be used instead. The main advantage to use facades instead of their service implementation is that the facades support lazy loading. Facades are imported from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root`.

- `CheckoutCostCenterFacade` should be used instead of `CheckoutCostCenterService`

- `CheckoutDeliveryFacade` should be used instead of `CheckoutDeliveryService`

- `CheckoutPaymentFacade` should be used instead of `CheckoutPaymentService`

- `CheckoutFacade` should be used instead of `CheckoutService`

- `PaymentTypeFacade` should be used instead of `PaymentTypeService`

- `ClearCheckoutFacade` should be used instead of `ClearCheckoutService`

#### ExpressCheckoutService

- Service moved from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront` entry point to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components`.
- `CheckoutDeliveryService` constructor parameter replaced with `CheckoutDeliveryFacade` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root`.
- `CheckoutPaymentService` constructor parameter replaced with `CheckoutPaymentFacade` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root`.
- `CheckoutDetailsService` constructor parameter is now imported from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components`.
- `CheckoutConfigService` constructor parameter is now imported from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components`.
- `ClearCheckoutService` constructor parameter replaced with required `ClearCheckoutFacade` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root`.
- Method `resetCheckoutProcesses` was removed, use method `resetCheckoutProcesses` from `ClearCheckoutFacade` instead.

### CostCenterComponent
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutCostCenterService` is now of type `CheckoutCostCenterFacade`
constructor parameter of type `PaymentTypeService` is now of type `PaymentTypeFacade`

### DeliveryModeComponent
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutDeliveryService` is now of type `CheckoutDeliveryFacade`

### PaymentMethodComponent
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutService` is now of type `CheckoutFacade`
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutDeliveryService` is now of type `CheckoutDeliveryFacade`
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutPaymentService` is now of type `CheckoutPaymentFacade`

### PaymentFormComponent
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutPaymentService` is now of type `CheckoutPaymentFacade`
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutDeliveryService` is now of type `CheckoutDeliveryFacade`
PaymentFormComponent does not implement `OnDestroy` anymore
method `ngOnDestroy()` removed.
Address verification uses new `UserAddressService.verifyAddress` function instead of `CheckoutDeliveryService.verifyAddress`.
expiration date has been wrapped to `fieldset` instead of `label`. `span` has been replaced with `legend` and there are new `label` instead of `div` per every form control (expiration month, expiration year).

### PaymentTypeComponent    
constructor parameter of type `PaymentTypeService` is now of type `PaymentTypeFacade`

### PlaceOrderComponent
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutService` is now of type `CheckoutFacade`

### ReviewSubmitComponent
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutDeliveryService` is now of type `CheckoutDeliveryFacade`
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutPaymentService` is now of type `CheckoutPaymentFacade`
constructor parameter of type `PaymentTypeService` is now of type `PaymentTypeFacade`
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutCostCenterService` is now of type `CheckoutCostCenterFacade`
Removed constructor parameter `PromotionService`

Removed the attribute orderPromotions$
The component gets promotions directly from the cart in the html template.

### ScheduleReplenishmentOrderComponent
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutService` is now of type `CheckoutFacade`

### ShippingAddressComponent
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutDeliveryService` is now of type `CheckoutDeliveryFacade`
constructor parameter of type `PaymentTypeService` is now of type `PaymentTypeFacade`
constructor parameter of type `CheckoutCostCenterService` is now of type `CheckoutCostCenterFacade`

### CheckoutEventModule
Change: One new required constructor parameters `_checkoutEventListener: CheckoutEventListener`

To split out the checkout code in the checkout lib, the address verification functionality
was moved in `UserAddressService` in @commerce-storefront-toolset/core.  The address verification related functions in `CheckoutDeliveryService` and ngrx supporting classes are not present in the checkout lib.

### CheckoutDeliveryService:
These functions are not present in the checkout lib:
- `getAddressVerificationResults(): Observable<AddressValidation | string>`
- `verifyAddress(address: Address): void`
- `clearAddressVerificationResults(): void`

These functions are also not present in the corresponding facade `CheckoutDeliveryFacade`

### CheckoutState
Property `addressVerification: AddressVerificationState` is removed from the `CheckoutState` class in the checkout lib.

### AddressVerificationState
The `AddressVerificationState` class is not carried over to the checkout lib.

### CheckoutDeliveryService
New property `processStateStore: Store<StateWithCheckout>` is added into the constructor.

### CheckoutPaymentService
New property `processStateStore: Store<StateWithCheckout>` is added into the constructor.

### CheckoutService
New property `processStateStore: Store<StateWithCheckout>` is added into the constructor.

### PaymentTypeService
New property `processStateStore: Store<StateWithCheckout>` is added into the constructor.

### OrderConfirmationItemsComponent
Removed constructor parameter `PromotionService`
Removed the attribute orderPromotions$
The component gets promotions directly from the order in the html template.

### OccCheckoutAdapter
Protected method `getEndpoint` has been removed. There are new methods: `getPlaceOrderEndpoint`, `getRemoveDeliveryAddressEndpoint`, `getClearDeliveryModeEndpoint`, `getLoadCheckoutDetailsEndpoint`.

### OccCheckoutPaymentAdapter
Protected method`getCartEndpoint` has been removed. There are new methods: `getCardTypesEndpoint`, `getCreatePaymentDetailsEndpoint`, `getPaymentProviderSubInfoEndpoint`, `getSetPaymentDetailsEndpoint`.

### OccCheckoutCostCenterAdapter
Protected method`getCartEndpoint` has been removed. There is a new method: `getSetCartCostCenterEndpoint`.

### OccCheckoutDeliveryAdapter
Protected method`getCartEndpoint` has been removed. There are new methods: `getCreateDeliveryAddressEndpoint`, `getDeliveryModeEndpoint`, `getDeliveryModesEndpoint`, `getSetDeliveryAddressEndpoint`, `getSetDeliveryModeEndpoint`.

### OccCheckoutPaymentTypeAdapter
Protected method`getCartEndpoint` has been removed. There are new methods: `getPaymentTypesEndpoint`, `getSetCartPaymentTypeEndpoint`.

### OccCheckoutReplenishmentOrderAdapter
There is a new method: `getScheduleReplenishmentOrderEndpoint`.

### CheckoutComponentModule
`CheckoutComponentModule` was and renamed to `CheckoutComponentsModule`. It was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components`.  The new module is, not exactly the same as the previous one, but the new one should essentially be a superset of the previous one.

### CheckoutModule
The `CheckoutModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` became `CheckoutCoreModule` in `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core`.  `CheckoutCoreModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core` fills a similar role as the previous `CheckoutModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core`.  One exception is providing the `CheckoutCartInterceptor`, which is now done in `CheckoutRootModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root` instead.
(Note: The new `CheckoutCoreModule` doesn't have the method `forRoot()` - please just import `CheckoutCoreModule` instead.)

There is still a `CheckoutModule` in `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout`.  While its name is the same as the previous module from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core`,  his role is different.  It imports other new checkout lib modules: `CheckoutComponentsModule`, `CheckoutCoreModule`, `CheckoutOccModule`.  The new module naming changes might seem confusing at first sight, but the choice of the new names were made to align with the feature libs module naming convention in Spartacus.

## Complete list of symbols (class, interface, const) moved to the checkout lib

Imports for these symbols must be updated in custom code.

| Name  | Moved From | Moved To | Renamed To
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| CheckoutLoginComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutLoginModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| OrderConfirmationModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| ReplenishmentOrderConfirmationModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| OrderConfirmationGuard | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| GuestRegisterFormComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| OrderConfirmationItemsComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| OrderConfirmationOverviewComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| OrderConfirmationThankYouMessageComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| OrderConfirmationTotalsComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutComponentModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | CheckoutComponentsModule | 
| CheckoutOrchestratorComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutOrchestratorModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutOrderSummaryComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutOrderSummaryModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutProgressComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutProgressModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutProgressMobileBottomComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutProgressMobileBottomModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutProgressMobileTopComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutProgressMobileTopModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| DeliveryModeComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| DeliveryModeModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| PaymentMethodComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| PaymentMethodModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| PaymentFormComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| PaymentFormModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| PlaceOrderComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| PlaceOrderModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| ReviewSubmitComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| ReviewSubmitModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| ScheduleReplenishmentOrderComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| ScheduleReplenishmentOrderModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CardWithAddress | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| ShippingAddressComponent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| ShippingAddressModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| DeliveryModePreferences | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | - | 
| CheckoutConfig | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | - | 
| CheckoutAuthGuard | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutStepsSetGuard | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutGuard | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| NotCheckoutAuthGuard | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutStepType | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | - | 
| checkoutShippingSteps | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | - | 
| checkoutPaymentSteps | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | - | 
| CheckoutStep | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | - | 
| CheckoutConfigService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutDetailsService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutReplenishmentFormService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutStepService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| ExpressCheckoutService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/components | - | 
| CheckoutOccModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ | - | 
| OccCheckoutCostCenterAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ | - | 
| OccCheckoutDeliveryAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ | - | 
| OccCheckoutPaymentTypeAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ | - | 
| OccCheckoutPaymentAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ | - | 
| OccCheckoutReplenishmentOrderAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ | - | 
| OccCheckoutAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ | - | 
| OccReplenishmentOrderFormSerializer | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/occ | - | 
| CheckoutModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | CheckoutCoreModule | 
| CheckoutAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutConnector | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutCostCenterAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutCostCenterConnector | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutDeliveryAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutDeliveryConnector | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| DELIVERY_MODE_NORMALIZER | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutPaymentAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutPaymentConnector | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| PAYMENT_DETAILS_SERIALIZER | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CARD_TYPE_NORMALIZER | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| PAYMENT_TYPE_NORMALIZER | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| PaymentTypeAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| PaymentTypeConnector | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutReplenishmentOrderAdapter | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutReplenishmentOrderConnector | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| REPLENISHMENT_ORDER_FORM_SERIALIZER | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutEventBuilder | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutEventModule | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| OrderPlacedEvent | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | - | 
| CheckoutCostCenterService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | CheckoutCostCenterFacade | 
| CheckoutDeliveryService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | CheckoutDeliveryFacade | 
| CheckoutPaymentService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | CheckoutPaymentFacade | 
| CheckoutService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | CheckoutFacade | 
| PaymentTypeService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | PaymentTypeFacade | 
| ClearCheckoutService | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/root | ClearCheckoutFacade | 
| CheckoutDetails | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutPageMetaResolver | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CHECKOUT_FEATURE | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CHECKOUT_DETAILS | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| SET_DELIVERY_ADDRESS_PROCESS_ID | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| SET_DELIVERY_MODE_PROCESS_ID | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| SET_SUPPORTED_DELIVERY_MODE_PROCESS_ID | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| SET_PAYMENT_DETAILS_PROCESS_ID | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| GET_PAYMENT_TYPES_PROCESS_ID | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| SET_COST_CENTER_PROCESS_ID | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| PLACED_ORDER_PROCESS_ID | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| StateWithCheckout | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CardTypesState | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutStepsState | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| PaymentTypesState | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| OrderTypesState | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutState | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutActions | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 
| CheckoutSelectors | @commerce-storefront-toolset/core | @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/core | - | 

## (end) Changes in the classes carried over to the @commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout lib 



### AddedToCartDialogComponent
- Removed constructor parameter `PromotionService`
- Removed the attribute orderPromotions$
- The component gets promotions directly from the cart in the html template.
- The `increment` property was removed. Use property `numberOfEntriesBeforeAdd` instead.


### CartDetailsComponent
- Removed constructor parameter `PromotionService`
- Removed the attributes `orderPromotions$` and `promotions$`.
- The component gets promotions directly from the cart in the html template.



### CartItemComponent
- Removed constructor parameter `PromotionService`
- The component gets product promotions directly from the cart entry data.
- Removed the `ngOnInit()` method
- Removed the attribute `appliedProductPromotions$`


### CartItemListComponent
- removed constructor dependency `FeatureConfigService`
- added new required constructor dependencies `UserIdService` and `MultiCartService`

### OrderDetailItemsComponent
Removed constructor parameter `PromotionService`
Removed the attribute orderPromotions$
The component gets promotions directly from the order in the html template.

### SuggestedAddressDialogComponent

SuggestedAddressDialogComponent uses different translation label keys:

- Key `checkoutAddress.verifyYourAddress` is replaced by `addressSuggestion.verifyYourAddress`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.ensureAccuracySuggestChange` is replaced by `addressSuggestion.ensureAccuracySuggestChange`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.chooseAddressToUse` is replaced by `addressSuggestion.chooseAddressToUse`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.suggestedAddress` is replaced by `addressSuggestion.suggestedAddress`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.enteredAddress` is replaced by `addressSuggestion.enteredAddress`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.editAddress` is replaced by `addressSuggestion.editAddress`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.saveAddress` is replaced by `addressSuggestion.saveAddress`.

### OrderOverviewComponent

OrderOverviewComponent uses different translation label keys:

- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.replenishmentNumber` is replaced by `orderDetails.replenishmentId`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.status` is replaced by `orderDetails.status`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.active` is replaced by `orderDetails.active`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.cancelled` is replaced by `orderDetails.cancelled`.
- Key `checkoutReview.startOn` is replaced by `orderDetails.startOn`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.frequency` is replaced by `orderDetails.frequency`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.nextOrderDate` is replaced by `orderDetails.nextOrderDate`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.orderNumber` is replaced by `orderDetails.orderNumber`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.placedOn` is replaced by `orderDetails.placedOn`.
- Key `checkoutReview.poNumber` is replaced by `orderDetails.purchaseOrderNumber`.
- Key `checkoutPO.noPoNumber` is replaced by `orderDetails.emptyPurchaseOrderId`.
- Key `checkoutProgress.methodOfPayment` is replaced by `orderDetails.methodOfPayment`.
- Key `checkoutPO.costCenter` is replaced by `orderDetails.costCenter`.
- Key `checkoutShipping.shippingMethod` is replaced by `orderDetails.shippingMethod`.
- The `getOrderCurrentDateCardContent` method requires `isoDate` parameter. It is no longer optional.

### Qualtrics changes

- `QualtricsConfig` was removed from storefrontlib. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/qualtrics/components instead.
- `QUALTRICS_EVENT_NAME` was removed from storefrontlib. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/qualtrics/components instead.
- `QualtricsLoaderService` was removed from storefrontlib. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/qualtrics/components instead.
- `QualtricsLoaderService` from the feature-lib no longer requires `RendererFactory2`. It has been replaced with `ScriptLoader`.
- `QualtricsComponent` was removed from storefrontlib. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/qualtrics/components instead.
- `QualtricsModule` was removed from storefrontlib, and renamed QualtricsComponentsModule. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/qualtrics/components instead.

### OccConfigLoaderModule
- `OccConfigLoaderModule` was removed. Please use `SiteContextConfigInitializer` and `I18nConfigInitializer` instead.

### OccConfigLoaderService
- `OccConfigLoaderService` was removed. Please use `SiteContextConfigInitializer` and `I18nConfigInitializer` instead.

### OccLoadedConfigConverter
- `OccLoadedConfigConverter` was removed. Please use `SiteContextConfigInitializer` and `I18nConfigInitializer` instead.

### OccLoadedConfig 
- `OccLoadedConfig` was removed. Please use `SiteContextConfigInitializer` and `I18nConfigInitializer` instead.

### OccSitesConfigLoader 
- `OccSitesConfigLoader`was removed. Please use `SiteContextConfigInitializer` and `I18nConfigInitializer` instead.

### OccEndpoints
The config property `backend.occ.endpoints.baseSitesForConfig` has been removed. Please use `backend.occ.endpoints.baseSites` instead.

#### NavigationUIComponent

- Added `HamburgerMenuService` to constructor.


### Changes to Styles in 4.0

#### Changes in storefrontstyles components

`$page-template-blacklist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$page-template-blocklist` in `_page-template.scss`.

`$cart-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$cart-components-allowlist` in `cart/_index.scss`.

`$cds-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$cds-components-allowlist` in `cds/index.scss`.

`$store-finder-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$store-finder-components-allowlist` in `store-finder/index.scss`.

`$checkout-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$checkout-components-allowlist` in `checkout/_index.scss`.

`$content-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$content-components-allowlist` in `content/_index.scss`.

`$layout-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$layout-components-allowlist` in `layout/_index.scss`.

`$misc-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$misc-components-allowlist` in `misc/_index.scss `.

`$myaccount-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$myaccount-components-allowlist` in `myaccount/_index.scss`.

`$product-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$product-components-allowlist` in `product/index.scss`.

`$product-list-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$product-list-allowlist` in `product/list/_index.scss`.

`$pwa-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$pwa-components-allowlist` in `pwa/add-to-home-screen-banner/_index.scss`.

`$user-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$user-components-allowlist` in `user/_index.scss`.

`$wish-list-components-whitelist` scss variable name has been renamed to `$wish-list-components-allowlist` in `wish-list/index.scss`.

#### Changes in Organization feature library

`$page-template-blacklist-organization` scss variable name has been renamed to `$page-template-blocklist-organization`.

`$page-template-whitelist-organization` scss variable name has been renamed to `$page-template-allowlist-organization`.

#### Changes in Storefinder feature library

`$page-template-blacklist-store-finder` scss variable name has been renamed to `$page-template-blocklist-store-finder`.

`$page-template-whitelist-store-finder` scss variable name has been renamed to `$page-template-allowlist-store-finder`.

### Removal of grouping modules

In 4.0 release we removed few modules that were grouping feature modules and provided some default configuration.

To migrate them check this section: `Before migrating to Spartacus 4.0`

- removed `B2cStorefrontModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`
- removed `B2bStorefrontModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/setup`
- removed `StorefrontModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`
- removed `CmsLibModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`
- removed `MainModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`
- removed `StorefrontFoundationModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`
- removed `OccModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core`
- removed `EventsModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`

### ViewConfigModule removed

This module only provided empty default configuration that is not needed. This module was pretty much useless.

### EventService

- `EventService` will now register event's parent as an event. For more, see [this docs page](https://sap.github.io/spartacus-docs/event-service/#event-type-inheritance).

### Changes in product configurator feature library

#### MessageConfig

Has been renamed to `ConfiguratorMessageConfig`

#### ConfiguratorAttributeDropDownComponent

Method `onSelect` has been removed, it is no longer used. Use `onSelect` from super class which takes the value as argument

#### ConfiguratorAttributeNumericInputFieldComponent

Method `createEventFromInput` has been removed, it is no longer used

#### ConfiguratorAttributeRadioButtonComponent

Method `onDeselect` has been removed, it is no longer used

#### ConfiguratorGroupMenuComponent

Method `preventScrollingOnSpace`, `navigateUpOnEnter` and `clickOnEnter` have been removed, they are no longer used

#### ConfiguratorProductTitleComponent

Methods `getProductImageURL`, `getProductImageAlt` and `clickOnEnter` have been removed, they are no longer used

#### ConfiguratorCartService
 
Change: The type of constructor parameter `checkoutService: CheckoutService` is changed to `checkoutFacade: CheckoutFacade` to adapt to the new checkout lib. 
The constructor parameter `cartStore: Store<StateWithMultiCart>` has been removed.

In addition, `ConfiguratorCartService` now also requires `ConfiguratorUtilsService`.

#### CommonConfiguratorUtilsService

Method `getCartId` changes its signature from `getCartId(cart: Cart): string` to `getCartId(cart?: Cart): string`

#### ConfiguratorGroupsService

Method `getFirstConflictGroup` changes return parameter from `Configurator.Group` to `Configurator.Group | undefined`
Method `getMenuParentGroup` changes return parameter from `Configurator.Group` to `Configurator.Group | undefined`
Method `getParentGroup` changes return parameter from `Configurator.Group` to `Configurator.Group | undefined`
Method `getNextGroupId` changes return parameter from `Observable<string>` to `Observable<string | undefined>`
Method `getPreviousGroupId` changes return parameter from `Observable<string>` to `Observable<string | undefined>`
Method `getNeighboringGroupId` changes return parameter from `Observable<string>` to `Observable<string | undefined>`

#### ConfiguratorUtilsService

Method `getParentGroup` changes return parameter from `Configurator.Group` to `Configurator.Group | undefined`

#### New and renamed dependencies

`ConfiguratorCartEntryInfoComponent` now also requires `CommonConfiguratorUtilsService`.
`ConfiguratorAttributeCheckboxListComponent` now also requires `ConfiguratorAttributeQuantityService`.
`ConfiguratorAttributeDropDownComponent` now also requires `ConfiguratorAttributeQuantityService`.
`ConfiguratorAttributeInputFieldComponent` now also requires `ConfiguratorUISettingsConfig`.
`ConfiguratorAttributeNumericInputFieldComponent` now also requires `ConfiguratorUISettingsConfig`.
`ConfiguratorAttributeRadiButtonComponent` now also requires `ConfiguratorAttributeQuantityService`.
`ConfiguratorGroupMenuComponent` now also requires `ConfiguratorGroupMenuService` and `DirectionService`.
`ConfiguratorStorefrontUtilsService` now also requires `WindowRef` and `KeyboardFocusService`.
`ConfiguratorFormComponent` now also requires `ConfiguratorStorefrontUtilsService`. 
`ConfiguratorIssuesNotificationComponent` now also requires `CartItemContext`.
`ConfiguratorOverviewAttributeComponent` now also requires `BreakpointService`.
`ConfiguratorUpdateMessageComponent` now requires `ConfiguratorMessageConfig` instead of `MessageConfig`.

### LoginRegisterComponent

Lib: @commerce-storefront-toolset/user
Class: LoginRegisterComponent

Change: constructor parameter `checkoutConfigService: CheckoutConfigService` is removed.
The display of the guest checkout button relies on the presence of the `forced` query param only.

### NgbTabsetModule

#### StoreFinderComponentsModule

- Deprecated import `NgbTabsetModule` from `@ng-bootstrap/ng-bootstrap` has been replaced with `NgbNavModule` to support version 8 of the library.

#### StoreFinderListComponent

- Mobile template has been updated to use nav instead of tabs. [See changes.](https://github.com/SAP/spartacus/pull/12398/files#diff-1db586698a503ea500917fe4d734f84d0729f585aa7c4b56705d9171a38e7f55L64-L120)
- Added styles for `ul.nav` to keep the same appearance.

### ASM changes

- `AsmModule` was removed from storefrontlib, and renamed AsmComponentsModule. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/components instead.
- `AsmModule` was removed from core, and renamed AsmCoreModule. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core. instead.
- `AsmOccModule` was removed from core. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/occ instead.
- `OccAsmAdapter` was removed from core. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/occ instead.
- `AsmConfig` was removed from core. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core.
- `AsmAdapter` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `AsmConnector` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CUSTOMER_SEARCH_PAGE_NORMALIZER` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `AsmService` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CsAgentAuthService` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/root instead.
- `CustomerSearchPage` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CustomerSearchOptions` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `AsmUi` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `AsmAuthHttpHeaderService` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/root instead.
- `TOKEN_TARGET` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/root instead.
- `AsmAuthService` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/root instead.
- `AsmAuthStorageService` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/root instead.
- `SYNCED_ASM_STATE` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `AsmStatePersistenceService` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `ASM_UI_UPDATE` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `AsmUiUpdate` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `AsmUiAction` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CUSTOMER_SEARCH` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CUSTOMER_SEARCH_FAIL` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CUSTOMER_SEARCH_SUCCESS` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CUSTOMER_SEARCH_RESET` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CustomerSearch` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CustomerSearchFail` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CustomerSearchSuccess` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CustomerSearchReset` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CustomerAction` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `LOGOUT_CUSTOMER_SUPPORT_AGENT` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `LogoutCustomerSupportAgent` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `ASM_FEATURE` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `CUSTOMER_SEARCH_DATA` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `StateWithAsm` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `AsmState` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `getAsmUi` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `getCustomerSearchResultsLoaderState` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `getCustomerSearchResults` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `getCustomerSearchResultsLoading` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.
- `getAsmState` was removed. Use @commerce-storefront-toolset/asm/core instead.

### LaunchDialogService

#### SavedCartFormLaunchDialogService

- Service has been removed. `openDialog` method is part of LaunchDialogService now.

#### AddToSavedCartComponent

- Removed `SavedCartFormLaunchDialogService` from constructor.
- Added `LaunchDialogService` to constructor.

#### SavedCartDetailsActionComponent

- Removed `SavedCartFormLaunchDialogService` from constructor.
- Added `LaunchDialogService` to constructor.

#### SavedCartDetailsOverviewComponent

- Removed `SavedCartFormLaunchDialogService` from constructor.
- Added `LaunchDialogService` to constructor.

#### AnonymousConsentLaunchDialogService

- Service has been removed. `openDialog` method is part of `LaunchDialogService` now.

#### AnonymousConsentManagementBannerComponent

- Removed `AnonymousConsentLaunchDialogService` from constructor.
- Added `LaunchDialogService` to constructor.

#### AnonymousConsentOpenDialogComponent

- Removed `AnonymousConsentLaunchDialogService` from constructor.
- Added `LaunchDialogService` to constructor.

#### ReplenishmentOrderCancellationLaunchDialogService

- Service has been removed. `openDialog` method is part of LaunchDialogService now.

#### ReplenishmentOrderCancellationComponent

- Removed `ReplenishmentOrderCancellationLaunchDialogService` from constructor.
- Added `LaunchDialogService` to constructor.

#### OrderHistoryComponent

- `div` which wrapped `cx-sorting` component has been changed to `label` and added `span` before field.

#### OrderReturnRequestListComponent

- `div` which wrapped `cx-sorting` component has been changed to `label` and added `span` before field.

#### ReplenishmentOrderHistoryComponent

- Removed `ReplenishmentOrderCancellationLaunchDialogService` from constructor.
- Added `LaunchDialogService` to constructor.
- `div` which wrapped `cx-sorting` component has been changed to `label` and added `span` before field.

#### ProductListComponent

- Two elements `div` which wrapped `cx-sorting` component has been merged to one `label` and added `span` before field.

### SmartEdit

- `SmartEditModule` was removed. Use `@commerce-storefront-toolset/smartedit` instead.
- `SmartEditService` was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/smartedit/core`.

### Personalization

- `PersonalizationModule` was removed. Use `@commerce-storefront-toolset/tracking/personalization` instead.
- `PersonalizationConfig` was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/tracking/personalization/root`.
- `PersonalizationContextService` was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/tracking/personalization/core`.
- `PersonalizationAction` was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/tracking/personalization/core`.
- `PersonalizationContext` was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/tracking/personalization/core`.

### WindowRef

- `platformId` is now required constructor dependency.

### ProductListComponentService

- `ProductListComponentService` now also requires `ViewConfig`.
- The `defaultPageSize` property was removed. To modify default page size use `provideConfig(<ViewConfig>{ view: { defaultPageSize: <your_default_page_size_value }})` in module.

### Product reloading

- `reload` method was removed from `ProductService`. Instead, use the [reloading triggers](https://sap.github.io/spartacus-docs/loading-scopes/#reloading-triggers).
- `ProductLoadingService`'s constructor has changed - `EventService` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` was added as a parameter.

### Product variants changes

#### Automated Migrations for Version 4.0

- `ProductVariantsModule` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants` feature-library instead.
- `ProductVariantsComponent` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantsContainerComponent` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components` as a replacement.
- `VariantColorSelectorComponent` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantColorSelectorComponent` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components` as a replacement.
- `VariantColorSelectorModule` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantColorSelectorModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components` as a replacement.
- `VariantSizeSelectorComponent` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantSizeSelectorComponent` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components` as a replacement.
- `VariantSizeSelectorModule` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantSizeSelectorModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components` as a replacement.
- `VariantStyleSelectorComponent` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantStyleSelectorComponent` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components` as a replacement.
- `VariantStyleSelectorModule` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantStyleSelectorModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components` as a replacement.
- `VariantStyleIconsComponent` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantStyleIconsComponent` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/root` as a replacement.
- `ProductVariantStyleIconsComponent` was moved from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components`to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/root` instead.
- `VariantStyleIconsModule` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantStyleIconsModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/root` as a replacement.
- `ProductVariantStyleIconsModule` was moved from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components`to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/root` instead.
- `ProductVariantGuard` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront. Use `ProductVariantsGuard` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/components` instead. Additionally method: `findVariant` was renamed to `findPurchasableProductCode`.
- `AuthHttpHeaderService` now requires `AuthRedirectService`.
- `AsmAuthHttpHeaderService` now requires `AuthRedirectService`.
- `AuthRedirectService` now requires `AuthFlowRoutesService`.
- `RoutingService` now requires `Location` from `@angular/common`.
- `ProtectedRoutesService` now requires `UrlParsingService`.
- `EventService` no longer uses `FeatureConfigService`.
- `PageEventModule` was removed. Instead, use `NavigationEventModule` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`
- `PageEventBuilder` was removed. Instead, use `NavigationEventBuilder` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront`
- `CartPageEventBuilder` no longer uses `ActionsSubject` and `FeatureConfigService`
- `HomePageEventBuilder` no longer uses `FeatureConfigService`
- `ProductPageEventBuilder` no longer uses `FeatureConfigService`
- `PageEvent` no longer contains `context`, `semanticRoute`, `url` and `params` properties. These are now contained in the `PageEvent.navigation` object
- `EventsModule` was removed. Use individual imports instead. (e.g. CartPageEventModule, ProductPageEventModule, etc.)

#### Product variants i18n

- translation namespace `variant` was removed from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/assets`. Use namespace `productVariants` that can be imported with `productVariantsTranslations` and `productVariantsTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/assets` instead. Translation keys from this namespace did not changed.

#### Product variants endpoint scope

- scope `variants` was removed from `defaultOccProductConfig`. It's now provided by `ProductVariantsOccModule` under `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants/occ` instead. Additionally the endpoint now uses `orgProducts` API instead of `products`.

#### ProductVariantStyleIconsComponent
`ProductVariantStyleIconsComponent` changed its constructor dependency from `ProductListItemContextSource` to `ProductListItemContext`.

#### Product variants styles

- styles for `cx-product-variants` were removed from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/styles`. Use `@commerce-storefront-toolset/product/variants` import instead.

### Feature keys for product configurators

The feature keys that are used to lazily load the product configurator libraries in app.module.ts were available as `rulebased` and `productConfiguratorRulebased` from 3.1 onwards (respective `textfield` and `productConfiguratorTextfield` for the textfield template configurator).

In 4.0, only the longer versions `productConfiguratorRulebased` and `productConfiguratorTextfield` are possible.

Example: A configuration

```
      featureModules: {
        rulebased: {
          module: () => import('@commerce-storefront-toolset/product-configurator/rulebased').then(
          (m) => m.RulebasedConfiguratorModule
        ),
        },
      }
```

needs to look like that in 4.0

```
      featureModules: {
        productConfiguratorRulebased: {
          module: () => import('@commerce-storefront-toolset/product-configurator/rulebased').then(
          (m) => m.RulebasedConfiguratorModule
        ),
        },
      }
```

### Translations (i18n) changed

- Key `asm.standardSessionInProgress` was removed.
- Key `pageMetaResolver.checkout.title_plurar` has been removed.
- Value of `pageMetaResolver.checkout.title` has been changed to `Checkout`.

### Storage Sync mechanism

I version 4.0 we removed deprecated in version 3.0 storage sync mechanism. In previous major release we provided more powerful mechanism based on `StatePersistenceService` which can cover all use cases for synchronizing data to and from browser storage (eg. `localStorage`, `sessionStorage`) better than the removed storage sync.

What was removed:

- core of the mechanism (reducer)
- configuration (`storageSync` from `StateConfig`)
- default config and default keys (`defaultStateConfig`, `DEFAULT_LOCAL_STORAGE_KEY` and `DEFAULT_SESSION_STORAGE_KEY`)

### DefaultScrollConfig

- `defaultScrollConfig` was renamed to `defaultViewConfig`

### BaseSiteService

- The method `BaseSiteService.initialize` was removed, please use `BaseSiteServiceInitializer.initialize` instead. A method `BaseSiteService.isInitialized` was added.

### LanguageService

- The method `LanguageService.initialize` was removed, please use `LanguageInitializer.initialize` instead. A method `LanguageService.isInitialized` was added.
- `LanguageService` no longer uses `WindowRef`. The language initialization from the state was moved to `LanguageInitializer`.
- `LanguageService` now validate the value passed to the method `setActive()` against the iso codes listed in the Spartacus `context` config, before setting the actual value in the ngrx store.
- The initialization of the site context is scheduled a bit earlier than in before (now it's run in an observable stream instead of a Promise's callback). It's a very slight change, but might have side-effects in some custom implementations.
- The active language is now persisted in the Local Storage instead of the Session Storage

### CurrencyService

- The method `CurrencyService.initialize` was removed, please use `CurrencyInitializer.initialize` instead. A method `CurrencyService.isInitialized` was added.
- `CurrencyService` no longer uses `WindowRef`. The currency initialization from the state was moved to `CurrencyInitializer`.
- `CurrencyService` now validate the value passed to the method `setActive()` against the iso codes listed in the Spartacus `context` config, before setting the actual value in the ngrx store.
- The initialization of the site context is scheduled a bit earlier than in before (now it's run in an observable stream instead of a Promise's callback). It's a very slight change, but might have side-effects in some custom implementations.
- The active currency is now persisted in the LocalStorage instead of the Session Storage.

### Page resolvers

In 3.1 and 3.2 we've introduced a few changes on how the page meta data is collected. The resolvers are now configurable and whether they render on the client or server (SSR) is also configurable (by default description, image, robots and canonical url are resolved only in SSR). A few resolvers are changed or added, since most data is now configurable in the backend (description, robots). The robot information that was previously hardcoded in some resolvers, are now driven by backend data.

The feature of resolving the canonical URL has been enabled by default in 4.0. In case you want to opt-out, please change the Spartacus configuration of `pageMeta.resolvers`.

A new feature has landed in the product and category resolvers for the canonical URL.

The `BasePageMetaResolver` is leveraged to compose most of the generic page meta data. Most page resolvers now use the page data to create the description and robot tags. The changes have affected the following resolver classes:

- The `PageMetaService` has a dependency on `UnifiedInjector`, `PageMetaConfig` and the `platformId`.
- The `ContentPageMetaResolver` depends only on the `BasePageMetaResolver`.
- The `BasePageMetaResolver` requires the `Router` and `PageLinkService` to add canonical links to the page meta.
- The `ProductPageMetaResolver` requires the `BasePageMetaResolver` and `PageLinkService`.
- The `CategoryPageMetaResolver` requires the `BasePageMetaResolver`.
- The `SearchPageMetaResolver` requires the `BasePageMetaResolver`.
- The `CheckoutPageMetaResolver` uses the `BasePageMetaResolver`.
- The `OrganizationPageMetaResolver` no longer uses the `BasePageMetaResolver`.
- The `RoutingService` uses the `Router` to resolve the full URL (used to resolve the canonical URL in the page meta resolvers)

The `CmsPageTitleModule` is renamed to `PageMetaModule`.
The `CartPageMetaResolver` is removed since all content is resolved by the generic `ContentPageMetaResolver`.

The following properties where removed in 4.0:

- The `ContentPageMetaResolver` no longer supports the `homeBreadcrumb$`,`breadcrumb$`,`title$` and `cms$` as the content is resolved by the `BasePageMetaResolver`.
- The `resolverMethods` property on the `PageMetaService` has changed to `resolvers$` since the resolvers are read from the configuration stream.

### SelectiveCartService

- The `getLoaded` method was removed. Use `isStable` method instead.

### DynamicAttributeService

- `DynamicAttributeService` doesn't depend anymore on the `SmartEditService`, but only on the `UnifiedInjector`.
-  The method `addDynamicAttributes` was removed. Please use functions `addAttributesToComponent` or `addAttributesToSlot` instead.

### SearchBoxComponentService

- `SearchBoxComponentService` now also requires `EventService`.

### CartListItemComponent

- Removed `FeatureConfigService` from constructor and added `UserIdService` and `MultiCartService` to constructor.
- Property `form: FormGroup` is now initialized on component creation instead of in the `createForm()` method.
- `ngOnInit()` method has been modified to fix an issue with rendering items.
- `[class.is-changed]` template attribute on `<div>` tag now depends on method `control.get('quantity').disabled`.

### Models

- The `Item` interface was removed. Use `OrderEntry` instead.
- `sortCode` was removed from interface `TableHeader`.

### SearchBoxComponent

- `RoutingService` is a new, required constructor dependency.
- `cx-icon[type.iconTypes.RESET]` has been changed to `button>cx-icon[type.iconTypes.Reset]`
- `cx-icon[type.iconstypes.SEARCH]` has been changed to `div>cx-icon[type.iconstypes.SEARCH]` with rest of the attributes removed. The button is for presentation purpose only. 
- `div.suggestions` has been changed to `ul>li>a` for better a11y support
- `div.products` has been changed to `ul>li>a` for better a11y support
- `winRef.document.querySelectorAll('.products > a, .suggestions > a')` has been changed to  `winRef.document.querySelectorAll('.products > li a, .suggestions > li a')`

### Organization Administration breaking changes

#### CardComponent (Administration)

- In attribute `cxPopoverOptions` of element `button.hint-popover` property `displayCloseButton` has been set to `true`.

#### ListComponent 

- In attribute `cxPopoverOptions` of element `button.hint-popover` property `displayCloseButton` has been set to `true`.
- `ng-select` for sort has been wrapped by `label` and added `span` before.

#### UserGroupUserListComponent

- Removed `MessageService` from constructor.

#### ToggleStatusComponent

- Removed `FeatureConfigService` from constructor.
- Added `DisableInfoService` to constructor.

#### DeleteItemComponent

- Removed `FeatureConfigService` from constructor.

#### UnitChildrenComponent

- `CurrentUnitService` is now required parameter in component constructor.

#### UnitCostCenterListComponent

- `CurrentUnitService` is now required parameter in component constructor.

#### UnitUserListComponent

- `CurrentUnitService` is now required parameter in component constructor.

#### UnitFormComponent

- Renamed property `formGroup` to `form`.
- Removed property `form$`.

#### OrganizationTableType

- Removed unused `UNIT_ASSIGNED_ROLES` property from enum.

#### HttpErrorModel

- Removed `error` property from interface.

#### Organization related Translations (i18n) changes

- Change contents of:
  `orgBudget.messages.deactivate`,
  `orgCostCenter.messages.deactivate`,
  `orgPurchaseLimit.messages.deactivate`,
  `orgUnit.messages.deactivate`,
  `orgUnitAddress.messages.delete`,
  `orgUserGroup.messages.delete`,
  `orgUser.messages.deactivate`
- Removed unused keys:
  `orgBudget.messages.deactivateBody`,
  `orgBudget.byName`,
  `orgBudget.byUnitName`,
  `orgBudget.byCode`,
  `orgBudget.byValue`,
  `orgCostCenter.messages.deactivateBody`,
  `orgCostCenter.byName`,
  `orgCostCenter.byCode`,
  `orgCostCenter.byUnitName`,
  `orgPurchaseLimit.messages.deactivateBody`,
  `orgPurchaseLimit.byName`,
  `orgPurchaseLimit.byUnitName`,
  `orgUnit.messages.deactivateBody`,
  `orgUnitAddress.messages.deleteBody`,
  `orgUserGroup.messages.deleteBody`,
  `orgUserGroup.byName`,
  `orgUserGroup.byUnitName`,
  `orgUserGroup.byGroupID`,
  `orgUser.messages.deactivateBody`,
  `orgUser.byName`,
  `orgUser.byUnitName`,
  
### Dependencies changes

- The peer dependency package `i18next-xhr-backend` was replaced with `i18next-http-backend`.
- The peer dependency package `i18next` was upgraded to the version `20.2.2`

### CmsFeaturesService

- `CmsComponentsService` constructor is now using `CmsFeaturesService` (replacing `FeatureModulesService`) and `ConfigInitializerService`.
- `FeatureModulesService` was removed. Was replaced by `CmsFeaturesService`.

### ConfigInitializerService

- `getStableConfig` method was removed. Use the new equivalent method instead: `getStable`.

### CartItemComponent

`CartItemComponent` now also requires `CartItemContextSource`. Moreover, a customized version of this component now also should provide locally `CartItemContextSource` and `CartItemContext` in the following way:
```typescript
@Component({
  providers: [
    CartItemContextSource,
    { provide: CartItemContext, useExisting: CartItemContextSource },
  ],
  /* ... */
})
```

### ProductListItemComponent and ProductGridItemComponent
`ProductListItemComponent` and `ProductGridItemComponent` now require `ProductListItemContextSource`. Moreover, customized versions of those components now also should provide locally `ProductListItemContextSource` and `ProductListItemContext` in the following way:
```typescript
@Component({
  providers: [
    ProductListItemContextSource,
    { provide: ProductListItemContext, useExisting: ProductListItemContextSource },
  ],
  /* ... */
})
```


### CartItemContext and CartItemContextSource
- the property `promotionLocation$` has been removed, please use `location$` instead  


### User lib changes

#### CMS Components

- Following modules `CloseAccountModule`, `ForgotPasswordModule`, `RegisterComponentModule`, `ResetPasswordModule`, `UpdateEmailModule`, `UpdatePasswordModule`, `UpdateProfileModule` were moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/components`.
- Following modules `LoginModule`, `LoginFormModule`, `LoginRegisterModule` were moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/components`.
- Component `ResetPasswordFormComponent` was renamed to `ResetPasswordComponent` and now can be used from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/components`. Also logic for this component was changed. For details look on sections below.
- Component `UpdateEmailFormComponent` was removed. For replacement `UpdateEmailComponent` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/components` can be used.
- Component `UpdatePasswordFormComponent` was removed. For replacement `UpdatePasswordComponent` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/components` can be used.
- Component `UpdateProfileFormComponent` was removed. For replacement `UpdateProfileComponent` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/components` can be used.
- Components `CloseAccountComponent`, `CloseAccountModalComponent`, `ForgotPasswordComponent`, `RegisterComponent`, `UpdateEmailComponent`, `UpdatePasswordComponent`, `UpdateProfileComponent` were moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/components`. Logic for those components was changed. For details look on sections below.
- Components `LoginComponent`, `LoginFormComponent` were moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/components`. Logic for those components was changed. For details look on sections below.
- Component `LoginRegisterComponent` were moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/components`.

#### CloseAccountModalComponent

- All services used in constructor have been changed to be `protected`.
- Component is not using `UserService` anymore, `UserProfileFacade` was introduced.
- Component is no longer using `Subscription` property, also `ngOnDestroy` method was removed.

#### ForgotPasswordComponent

- Property `forgotPasswordForm` was renamed to `form`.
- New observable property `isUpdating$` was added.
- Methods `ngOnInit`, `requestForgotPasswordEmail` were removed. New method `onSubmit` was added.
- Services `FormBuilder`, `UserService`, `RoutingService`, `AuthConfigService` are no longer used directly in component file. New service `ForgotPasswordComponentService` was introduced and used in constructor.
- Change detection strategy for this component was set to `OnPush`.
- There were slight changes in component template. Spinner component was added which relys on `isUpdating$` property, also form now is using `onSubmit` method on form submit event.

#### RegisterComponent

- Component is not using `UserService` anymore, `UserRegisterFacade` was introduced.
- Property `loading$` was changed to `isLoading$` and type was change to `BehaviorSubject<boolean>` instead of `Observable<boolean>`.
- Method `registerUserProcessInit` was removed.

#### ResetPasswordComponent (previously ResetPasswordFormComponent)

- Property `subscription` was removed.
- Type of `token` property was changed from `string` to `Observable<string>`.
- Property `resetPasswordForm` was renamed to `form`.
- New observable property `isUpdating$` was added.
- Methods `ngOnInit`, `resetPassword`, `ngOnDestroy` were removed. New method `onSubmit` was added.
- Services `FormBuilder`, `UserService`, `RoutingService`, are no longer used directly in component file. New service `ResetPasswordComponentService` was introduced and used in constructor.
- Change detection strategy for this component was set to `OnPush`.
- Component template was adapted to the new logic.
- Spinner component was added which relys on `isUpdating$` property.

#### LoginComponent

- Component is not using `UserService` anymore, `UserAccountFacade` was introduced.
- Type of `user` property was changed to `Observable<User | undefined>` instead of `Observable<User>`.

#### LoginFormComponent

- Services `AuthService`, `GlobalMessageService`, `FormBuilder`, `WindowRef` are no longer used directly in component file. New service `LoginFormComponentService` was introduced and used in constructor.
- Methods `ngOnInit`, `submitForm`, `loginUser` were removed from component file.
- New properties `form`, `isUpdating$` were added.
- New method `onSubmit` was added.
- Change detection strategy for this component was set to `OnPush`.
- Spinner component was added to the template which relys on `isUpdating$` property.

#### UpdateEmailComponent

- Properties `subscription`, `newUid`, `isLoading$` were removed.
- Methods `ngOnInit`, `onCancel`, `onSuccess`, `ngOnDestroy` were removed from component file.
- Services `GlobalMessageService`, `UserService`, `RoutingService`, `AuthService` are no longer used directly in component file. New service `UpdateEmailComponentService` was introduced and used in constructor.
- Logic for `onSubmit` method was changed. Now this method has no parameters.
- New properties `form`, `isUpdating$` were added.
- There were important change in component template. Since `UpdateEmailFormComponent` was removed `UpdateEmailComponent` contains now the template for update email form itself.
- Change detection strategy for this component was set to `OnPush`.
- Spinner component was added to the template which relays on `isUpdating$` property.

#### UpdateEmailComponentService

- `UpdateEmailComponentService` now also requires `AuthRedirectService`

#### UpdatePasswordComponent

- Properties `subscription`, `loading$` were removed.
- Methods `ngOnInit`, `onCancel`, `onSuccess`, `ngOnDestroy` were removed from component file.
- Services `RoutingService`, `UserService`, `GlobalMessageService`, are no longer used directly in component file. New service `UpdatePasswordComponentService` was introduced and used in constructor.
- Logic for `onSubmit` method was changed. Now this method has no parameters.
- New properties `form`, `isUpdating$` were added.
- There were important change in component template. Since `UpdatePasswordFormComponent` was removed `UpdatePasswordComponent` contains now the template for update password form itself.
- Change detection strategy for this component was set to `OnPush`.
- Spinner component was added to the template which relys on `isUpdating$` property.

#### UpdateProfileComponent

- Properties `user$`, `loading$` were removed.
- Methods `ngOnInit`, `onCancel`, `onSuccess`, `ngOnDestroy` were removed from component file.
- Services `RoutingService`, `UserService`, `GlobalMessageService`, are no longer used directly in component file. New service `UpdateProfileComponentService` was introduced and used in constructor.
- Logic for `onSubmit` method was changed. Now this method has no parameters.
- New properties `form`, `isUpdating$` were added.
- There were important change in component template. Since `UpdateProfileFormComponent` was removed `UpdateProfileComponent` contains now the template for update profile form itself.
- Change detection strategy for this component was set to `OnPush`.
- Spinner component was added to the template which relys on `isUpdating$` property.

### MyCouponsComponent

- `div` which wrapped `cx-sorting` component has been changed to `label` and added `span` before.
#### OccUserAdapter

- `OccUserAdapter` was removed. Instead please use `OccUserAccountAdapter` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/occ` and `OccUserProfileAdapter` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/occ`.
- The `remove` method was removed. Use `close` method instead.

#### UserAdapter

- `UserAdapter` was removed. Instead please use `UserAccountAdapter` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/core` and `UserProfileAdapter` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/core`.
- The `remove` method was removed. Use `close` method instead.

#### UserConnector

- `UserConnector` was removed. Instead please use equivalents: `UserAccountConnector` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/core` and `UserProfileConnector` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/core` .
- The `remove` method now returns `close` method from adapter (name change).

#### OccEndpoints

- Endpoint `user` was removed from the declaration in `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core`. It's now provided with module augmentation from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/occ`. Default value is also provided from this new entry point.
- Endpoints `titles`, `userRegister`, `userForgotPassword`, `userResetPassword`, `userUpdateLoginId`, `userUpdatePassword`, `userUpdateProfile`, `userCloseAccount` were removed from the declaration in `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core`. Those endpoints are now provided with module augmentation from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile`. Default values are also provided from this new entry point.

#### UserService

- `get` method was changed, now fully relys on `UserAccountFacade.get()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `load` method was removed, instead please use `UserAccountFacade.get()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `register` method was removed, instead please use `UserRegisterFacade.register()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `registerGuest` method was removed, instead please use `UserRegisterFacade.registerGuest()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `getRegisterUserResultLoading` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserRegisterFacade.register()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` to get the loading state.
- `getRegisterUserResultSuccess` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserRegisterFacade.register()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` to get the success state.
- `getRegisterUserResultError` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserRegisterFacade.register()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` to get the error state.
- `resetRegisterUserProcessState` method was removed and no longer needed if `UserRegisterFacade.register()`from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` was used.
- `remove` method was removed, instead please use `UserProfileFacade.close()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `loadTitles` method was removed, instead please use `UserProfileFacade.getTitles()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `getRemoveUserResultLoading` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserProfileFacade.close()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` to get the loading state.
- `getRemoveUserResultSuccess` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserProfileFacade.close()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` to get the success state.
- `getRemoveUserResultError` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserProfileFacade.close()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` to get the error state.
- `resetRemoveUserProcessState` method was removed and no longer needed if `UserProfileFacade.close()`from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` was used.
- `isPasswordReset` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserPasswordFacade.reset()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` to get the success state.
- `updatePersonalDetails` method was removed, instead please use `UserProfileFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `getUpdatePersonalDetailsResultLoading` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserProfileFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the loading state.
- `getUpdatePersonalDetailsResultError` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserProfileFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the error state.
- `getUpdatePersonalDetailsResultSuccess` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserProfileFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the success state.
- `resetUpdatePersonalDetailsProcessingState` method was removed and no longer needed if `UserProfileFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` was used.
- `resetPassword` method was removed, instead please use `UserPasswordFacade.reset()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `requestForgotPasswordEmail` method was removed, instead please use `UserPasswordFacade.requestForgotPasswordEmail()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `updateEmail` method was removed, instead please use `UserEmailFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `getUpdateEmailResultLoading` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserEmailFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the loading state.
- `getUpdateEmailResultSuccess` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserEmailFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the success state.
- `getUpdateEmailResultError` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserEmailFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the error state.
- `resetUpdateEmailResultState` method was removed and no longer needed if `UserEmailFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` was used.
- `updatePassword` method was removed, instead please use `UserPasswordFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`.
- `getUpdatePasswordResultLoading` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserPasswordFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the loading state.
- `getUpdatePasswordResultError` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserPasswordFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the error state.
- `getUpdatePasswordResultSuccess` method was removed, instead please subscribe to `UserPasswordFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`to get the success state.
- `resetUpdatePasswordProcessState` method was removed and no longer needed if `UserPasswordFacade.update()` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` was used.

#### UserModule

- `UserModule` was removed. Main modules currently are `UserAccountModule` in `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account` and `UserProfileModule` in `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile`.

#### Occ Endpoint Models

- `UserSignUp` model was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile` lib.

#### Ngrx state of the User feature

Some branches of the ngrx state for the User feature were removed: `'account'`, `'titles'`, and `'resetPassword'`. Please use the new approach with Queries and Commands defined in the new facades in  the library `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user`:
`UserAccountFacade` from '@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/root'
`UserEmailFacade` from '@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/root'
`UserPasswordFacade` from '@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/root'
`UserProfileFacade` from '@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/root'
`UserRegisterFacade` from '@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/root' 

The following items related to the ngrx state were removed from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core`:
- Following actions `ForgotPasswordEmailRequest`, `ForgotPasswordEmailRequestFail`, `ForgotPasswordEmailRequestSuccess`, `ResetPassword`, `ResetPasswordFail`, `ResetPasswordSuccess`, `LoadTitles`, `LoadTitlesFail`, `LoadTitlesSuccess`, `UpdateEmailAction`, `UpdateEmailSuccessAction`, `UpdateEmailErrorAction`, `ResetUpdateEmailAction`, `UpdatePassword`, `UpdatePasswordFail`, `UpdatePasswordSuccess`, `UpdatePasswordReset`, `LoadUserDetails`, `LoadUserDetailsFail`, `LoadUserDetailsSuccess`, `UpdateUserDetails`, `UpdateUserDetailsFail`, `UpdateUserDetailsSuccess`, `ResetUpdateUserDetails`, `RegisterUser`, `RegisterUserFail`, `RegisterUserSuccess`, `ResetRegisterUserProcess`, `RegisterGuest`, `RegisterGuestFail`, `RegisterGuestSuccess`, `RemoveUser`, `RemoveUserFail`, `RemoveUserSuccess`, `RemoveUserReset` were removed.
- Following effects `ForgotPasswordEffects`, `ResetPasswordEffects`, `TitlesEffects`, `UpdateEmailEffects`, `UpdatePasswordEffects`, `UserDetailsEffects`, `UserRegisterEffects` were removed.
- Following selectors `getResetPassword`, `getDetailsState`, `getDetails`, `getTitlesState`, `getTitlesEntites`, `getAllTitles`, `titleSelectorFactory` were removed.
- Reducers for following states `account`, `titles`, `resetPassword` were removed.

#### Connectors

- `TITLE_NORMALIZER` was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile`.
- `USER_SIGN_UP_SERIALIZER` was moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile`.
- `USER_SERIALIZER` was removed. For replacement please use `USER_ACCOUNT_SERIALIZER` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account` and `USER_PROFILE_SERIALIZER` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile`.
- `USER_NORMALIZER` was removed. For replacement please use `USER_ACCOUNT_NORMALIZER` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account` and `USER_PROFILE_NORMALIZER` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile`.

#### StoreFinderListItemComponent

- `div[class.cx-store-name]` element has been changed to `h2[class.cx-store-name]`.

#### StoreFinderStoresCountComponent

- `div[class.cx-title]` element has been changed to `h2[class.cx-title]`

#### StoreFinderListItemComponent

- `div[class.cx-total]` element has been changed to `h4[class.cx-total]`

#### CartItemComponent

- `{{item.product.name}}` element has been changed to `<h2>{{item.product.name}}</h2>`

#### OrderSummaryComponent

- `<h4>{{ 'orderCost.orderSummary' | cxTranslate }}</h4>` element has changed to `<h3>{{ 'orderCost.orderSummary' | cxTranslate }}</h3>`

#### DeliveryModeComponent

- `h3[class.cx-checkout-title]` element has changed to `h2[class.cx-checkout-title]`

#### PaymentMethodComponent

- `h3[class.cx-checkout-title]` element has changed to `h2[class.cx-checkout-title]`

#### ReviewSubmitComponent

- `h3[class.cx-review-title]` element changed to `h2[class.cx-review-title]`
- `div[class.cx-review-cart-total]` element changed to `h4[class.cx-review-cart-total]`

#### ShippingAddressComponent

- `h3[class.cx-checkout-title]` element changed to `h2[class.cx-checkout-title]`

#### CmsPageTitleComponent

- New interface has been created 

#### CmsBreadcrumbsComponent
- `CmsBreadcrumbsComponent` extends `CmsPageTitleComponent` now
- `container` property has been moved to `CmsPageTitleComponent`

#### BreadcrumbComponent

- `BreadcrumbComponent` extends `PageTitleComponent` now
- `setTitle()` function has been moved to `PageTitleComponent`

#### PageTitleComponent

- New component that sets page title if there is not one set by default 

#### NavigationUiComponent

- `<h5><cx-icon ...></h5>` element was changed to `<span><cx-icon ...></span>`
- `h5[attr.aria-label]="node.title"` element was was changed to `span[attr.aria-label]="node.title"`

#### ProductCarouselComponent

- `<h4>{{item.name}}</h4>` element changed to `<h3>{{item.name}}</h3>`

#### WishListItemComponent

- `<a>{{ cartEntry.product.name }}</a>` element changed to `<a><h2>{{ cartEntry.product.name }}</h2></a>`

#### CardComponent

- `h4[class.cx-card-title]` element changed to `h3[class.cx-card-title]`

#### CarouselComponent

- `<h3 *ngIf="title">{{ title }}</h3>` element changed to `<h2 *ngIf="title">{{ title }}</h2>`

#### AddedToCartDialogComponent

- `[attr.aria-label]="'common.close' | cxTranslate"` element changed to `attr.aria-label="{{ 'addToCart.closeModal' | cxTranslate }}"`

#### Translations (i18n) changes

- Key `miniLogin.userGreeting` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `miniLogin.signInRegister` was moved to separated `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user` lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.signIn` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.register` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.dontHaveAccount` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.guestCheckout` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.emailAddress.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.emailAddress.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.password.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.password.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.wrongEmailFormat` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `loginForm.forgotPassword` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userAccountTranslations`, `userAccountTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.newEmailAddress.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.newEmailAddress.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.confirmNewEmailAddress.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.confirmNewEmailAddress.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.enterValidEmail` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.bothEmailMustMatch` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.password.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.password.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.pleaseInputPassword` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `updateEmailForm.emailUpdateSuccess` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `forgottenPassword.resetPassword` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `forgottenPassword.enterEmailAddressAssociatedWithYourAccount` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `forgottenPassword.emailAddress.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `forgottenPassword.emailAddress.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `forgottenPassword.enterValidEmail` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `forgottenPassword.passwordResetEmailSent` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `forgottenPassword.passwordResetSuccess` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.confirmPassword.action` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.confirmPassword.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.confirmPassword.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.managementInMyAccount` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.termsAndConditions` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.signIn` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.register` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.confirmNewPassword` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.resetPassword` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.createAccount` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.title` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.firstName.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.firstName.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.lastName.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.lastName.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.emailAddress.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.emailAddress.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.password.label` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.password.placeholder` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.newPassword` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.emailMarketing` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.confirmThatRead` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.selectTitle` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.passwordMinRequirements` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.bothPasswordMustMatch` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.titleRequired` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `register.postRegisterMessage` was moved to separated lib. Now is a part of `userProfileTranslations`, `userProfileTranslationChunksConfig` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/assets`.
- Key `myCoupons.sortByMostRecent` has been removed. We use `myCoupons.sortBy` now.
- Key `myInterests.sortByMostRecent` has been removed. We use `myInterests.sortBy` now.
- Key `orderHistory.sortByMostRecent` has been removed. We use `orderHistory.sortBy` now.
- Key `returnRequestList.sortByMostRecent` has been removed. We use `returnRequestList.sortBy` now.
- Key `productList.sortByMostRecent` has been removed. We use `productList.sortBy` now.

### Default routing config for the My Company feature
The default routing config for the My Company pages was moved from various modules in `@commerce-storefront-toolset/organization/administration/components` to `OrganizationAdministrationRootModule` in `@commerce-storefront-toolset/organization/administration/root`. Therefore the default config is now provided eagerly, so it's available early on app start (but not only after the feature is lazy loaded). Also, the following objects were renamed and moved to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/organization/administration/root`:
- `budgetRoutingConfig` -> `defaultBudgetRoutingConfig`
- `costCenterRoutingConfig` -> `defaultCostCenterRoutingConfig`
- `permissionRoutingConfig` -> `defaultPermissionRoutingConfig`
- `unitsRoutingConfig` -> `defaultUnitsRoutingConfig`
- `userGroupRoutingConfig` -> `defaultUserGroupRoutingConfig`
- `userRoutingConfig` -> `defaultUserRoutingConfig`

#### Checkout Related Translations (i18n) changes

The checkout related translation keys were moved to the `@commerce-storefront-toolset/checkout/assets`.  If you use some checkout 
related labels outside of checkout and the checkout lib is not used, you will need to use alternate translation labels.

- Key `checkoutAddress.verifyYourAddress` is moved to `addressSuggestion.verifyYourAddress`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.ensureAccuracySuggestChange` is moved to `addressSuggestion.ensureAccuracySuggestChange`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.chooseAddressToUse` is moved to `addressSuggestion.chooseAddressToUse`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.suggestedAddress` is moved to `addressSuggestion.suggestedAddress`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.enteredAddress` is moved to `addressSuggestion.enteredAddress`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.editAddress` is moved to `addressSuggestion.editAddress`.
- Key `checkoutAddress.saveAddress` is moved to `addressSuggestion.saveAddress`.

- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.replenishmentNumber` is removed. You can use instead ``.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.placedOn` is removed. You can use instead `orderDetails.placedOn`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.status` is removed. You can use instead `orderDetails.status`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.active` is removed. You can use instead `orderDetails.active`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.cancelled` is removed. You can use instead `orderDetails.cancelled`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.frequency` is removed. You can use instead `orderDetails.frequency`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.nextOrderDate` is removed. You can use instead `orderDetails.nextOrderDate`.
- Key `checkoutOrderConfirmation.orderNumber` is removed. You can use instead `orderDetails.orderNumber`.

#### Changes in styles

- Styles for following selectors `cx-close-account-modal`, `cx-close-account`, `cx-forgot-password`, `cx-register`, `cx-update-password-form`, `cx-user-form` were moved from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/styles` to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/styles`.
- Styles for following selectors `cx-login`, `cx-login-form` were moved from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/styles` to `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/account/styles`.

### LogoutGuard

`AuthRedirectService` is a new, required constructor dependency.

### RoutingService
- `RoutingService.go` - changed signature. Before 4.0, the object with query params could be passed in the 2nd argument. Now the 2nd argument is Angular `NavigationExtras` object (with `'queryParams'` property).
- `RoutingService.navigate` - changed signature. Before 4.0, the object with query params could be passed in the 2nd argument. Now the 2nd argument is Angular `NavigationExtras` object (with `'queryParams'` property).

### RoutingActions ngrx
The following ngrx actions have been removed:
- `RoutingActions.RouteGo` (and `RoutingActions.ROUTER_GO`)
- `RoutingActions.RouteGoByUrlAction` (and `RoutingActions.ROUTER_GO_BY_URL`)
- `RoutingActions.RouteBackAction` (and `RoutingActions.ROUTER_BACK`)
- `RoutingActions.RouteForwardAction` (and `RoutingActions.ROUTER_FORWARD`).

Please use instead the methods of the `RoutingService`, respectively: `go()`, `goByUrl()`, `back()`, `forward()`.

### AuthRedirectService

- `#reportNotAuthGuard` - method not needed anymore. Every visited URL is now remembered automatically as redirect URL on `NavigationEnd` event.
- `#reportAuthGuard` - method deprecated; use the new equivalent method instead: `#saveCurrentNavigationUrl`. It remembers the anticipated page, when being invoked during the navigation.

### OccEndpointsService

- The `getEndpoint` method was removed. Use `buildUrl` instead with the `endpoint` string and the `propertiesToOmit` matching your desired URL.
- The `getOccEndpoint` method was removed. Use `buildUrl` instead with the `endpoint` string and the `propertiesToOmit` matching your desired URL.
- The `getBaseEndpoint` method was removed. Use `buildUrl` method instead with configurable endpoint or the `getBaseUrl` method.
- The `getUrl` method was removed. Use `buildUrl` method instead. The `buildUrl` method has the same first parameter as `getUrl`. The 2nd, 3rd and 4th parameters of `getUrl`, are merged into the second argument object of `buildUrl` with properties: `urlParams`, `queryParams` and `scope`.
- The `getRawEndpoint` method was removed. Use `buildUrl` with configurable endpoints or `getRawEndpointValue` method instead.

### Modal Service

- Removed `FeatureConfigService` from constructor.
- `ApplicationRef` is a new, required constructor dependency.

### ExternalJsFileLoader

- The service was removed from core. Please use `ScriptLoader` instead.

### CxApi
Removed public members of `CxApi`: `CheckoutService`, `CheckoutDeliveryService`, `CheckoutPaymentService`.

### TabParagraphContainerComponent

- `WindowRef` and `BreakpointService` are now required parameters in the constructor.
- All services used in constructor have been changed to be `protected`.

### b2cLayoutConfig

- `b2cLayoutConfig` was removed from @commerce-storefront-toolset/storefront, please use corresponding feature-lib specific layout.

### UnitAddressFormService

- Param `UserService` imported from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` was removed from constructor. Instead new param `UserAddressService` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/root` was added.

### GuestRegisterFormComponent

- Param `UserService` imported from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/core` was removed from constructor. Instead new param `UserRegisterFacade` from `@commerce-storefront-toolset/user/profile/root` was added.

### UserIdService

- `invokeWithUserId` method was removed. Use `takeUserId` instead.

### PopoverDirective

- `PopoverDirective` class now implements `ngOnInit`.
- Removed `PositioningService` from constructor.
- Event emitters `openPopover` and `closePopover` are no longer optional.
- New property: `eventSubject: Subject<PopoverEvent>`.
- Removed methods: `handleOpen`, `toggle`.
- Added new methods: `handleEscape`, `handleClick`, `handlePress`, `handleTab`.

### PopoverService

- Argument `event` of `getFocusConfig` method is now type `PopoverEvent` instead of `Event`

### PopoverComponent

- Removed property`insideClicked`.
- `button.close` has been moved into a `div.cx-close-row`

### OnNavigateFocusService

- Removed `document` injection param from constructor.
- Added `WindowRef` param into constructor.

### Facade factories are now inlined

Facade factories are now inlined into `@Injectable` decorator, the following symbols are not needed anymore and were removed: `userAccountFacadeFactory`, `UserEmailFacadeFactory`, `UserPasswordFacadeFactory`, `UserProfileFacadeFactory`, `UserRegisterFacadeFactory`, `savedCartFacadeFactory`, `cdcAuthFacadeFactory`. 
