# Technical Changes in Spartacus 5.0

## Removed incubator library

Incubator library is not being published anymore.

## Breaking changes in product-configurator library

### Reduced number of page header slots and introduction of exit button

In case the rulebased product configurator is launched from product details, product catalog, or cart, the number of slots displayed in
the page header has been reduced compared to 4.0. We only show slots `SiteLogo`,`VariantConfigOverviewExitButton` and `MiniCart`.
For details see `CpqConfiguratorLayoutModule`, `VariantConfiguratorInteractiveLayoutModule` and `VariantConfiguratorOverviewLayoutModule`.
These modules are new in 5.0. The layout configuration was removed from `CpqConfiguratorInteractiveModule`, `VariantConfiguratorInteractiveModule`
and `VariantConfiguratorOverviewModule`.

Note that `VariantConfigOverviewExitButton` is new, and allows to leave the configuration. Clicking it directs the user to the product detail
page, configuration changes are not taken over to the cart.

### Specific page header slots in case configurator is launched in displayOnly mode

In case the rulebased product configurator is launched from the checkout review order page, from the order confirmation page or from the order
history page, the page header shows the standard Spartacus header slots (not the reduced set of header slots listed in the previous section).
Specifically, `VariantConfigOverviewExitButton` is not offered then.
For details, see `CpqConfiguratorPageLayoutHandler` and `VariantConfiguratorPageLayoutHandler`.
The page header slots used in case of the displayOnly mode can be configured in `CpqConfiguratorLayoutModule` and `VariantConfiguratorOverviewLayoutModule`,
under the section `headerDisplayOnly`.

### ConfiguratorCommonsService

The method `removeObsoleteProductBoundConfiguration` has been removed, as it's no longer needed. An obsolete product bound configuration is handled
within action `RemoveCartBoundConfigurations`. So in case you called `removeObsoleteProductBoundConfiguration` before, consider to raise that action, which will
clear all cart bound configurations, and in addition delete the obsolete product bound configuration that is predecessor of a cart bound configuration.

### ConfiguratorGroupTitleComponent

The member `configuration$` was not used and has been removed. In case you use it in a sub component, consider to declare it there via
`configuration$: Observable<Configurator.Configuration> = this.configRouterExtractorService .extractRouterData() .pipe( switchMap((routerData) => this.configuratorCommonsService.getConfiguration(routerData.owner) ) );`

### RulebasedConfiguratorEventListener

This service has been removed. It was responsible for deleting cart bound configurations when an order was submitted. This is now handled by `ConfiguratorRouterListener`, which checks on cart bound
configurations on every navigation that is not configurator related, and deletes cart bound configurations if needed.

### ConfiguratorAddToCartButtonComponent

- `#displayOnly` template was added
- `<button class="cx-btn btn btn-block btn-primary cx-display-only-btn"></button>` was added to the `#displayOnly` template
- Now also uses `configurator.addToCart.buttonDisplayOnly` translation label key
- Added `OrderFacade` to constructor.
- Added `CommonConfiguratorUtilsService` to constructor.
- Added `ConfiguratorStorefrontUtilsService` to constructor.
- Added `IntersectionService` to constructor.

### ConfiguratorOverviewBundleAttributeComponent

- Added `TranslationService` to constructor.

### ConfiguratorGroupMenuComponent

- `configurator.addToCart.buttonDisplayOnly` was added to `configurator-common.ts`

### AuthRedirectService

- `reportAuthGuard` - method was removed. Use `saveCurrentNavigationUrl` method instead.
- `reportNotAuthGuard` - method not needed anymore. Every visited URL is now remembered automatically as redirect URL on `NavigationEnd` event.

### NotAuthGuard

- Removed `AuthRedirectService` from constructor.

### LogoutGuard

- Removed `AuthRedirectService` from constructor.

### LoginGuard

- Removed `AuthRedirectService` from constructor.

### CdcLogoutGuard

- Removed `AuthRedirectService` from constructor.
### ConfiguratorAttributeHeaderComponent

- Added `ConfiguratorCommonsService` to constructor.
- Added `ConfiguratorGroupsService` to constructor.
- Added `ConfiguratorUISettingsConfig` to constructor.
- Changed signature of `isAttributeGroup`, removed `groupType` parameter
- Changed signature of `getConflictMessageKey`, removed `groupType` parameter

### ConfiguratorAttributeSingleSelectionBaseComponent

- Added `TranslationService` to constructor.
- Got 2 new input fields: `language` and `ownerType`, both of type `string`

### ConfiguratorAttributeNumericInputFieldComponent

- Added `TranslationService` to constructor.

### ConfiguratorAttributeProductCardComponent

- Added `TranslationService` to constructor.

### ConfiguratorAttributeProductCardComponentOptions

- Added new attributes `attributeLabel`, `attributeName`, `itemCount` and `itemIndex` to interface.

### ConfiguratorCartEntryBundleInfoComponent

- `TranslationService` was added to constructor

### ConfiguratorExitButton

- `container$ | async as container` was added to the button to determine what the current owner type is. The button will be named accordingly

### ConfiguratorAttributeProductCardComponent

- `span` added (visually hidden) for screen-reader to read explanation for hidden button (in case option .hideRemoveButton is true

### ConfiguratorAttributeDropDownComponent

- Added `TranslationService` to constructor.
- Added conditional includes of `<cx-configurator-attribute-numeric-input-field>` and `<cx-configurator-attribute-input-field>` because of the support for attributes with additional values
- Added styling  `.cx-configurator-attribute-additional-value { margin-inline-start: 0px; }` in order to render an additional attribute value properly
- Added `label` (visually hidden) for screen-reader to read explanation of drop-down listbox (number of entries)

### ConfiguratorAttributeRadioButtonComponent

- Added `TranslationService` to constructor.
- Added conditional includes of `<cx-configurator-attribute-numeric-input-field>` and `<cx-configurator-attribute-input-field>` because of the support for attributes with additional values
- Added styling  `.cx-configurator-attribute-additional-value { margin-inline-start: 0px; }` in order to render an additional attribute value properly

### ConfiguratorAttributeReadOnlyComponent

#### for staticDomain part:

- `span` added (visually hidden) for screen-reader to read `value x of attribute y` (in order to better distinguish between text of a value and text of an attribute for screen-reader users)
- `span` added with `aria-hidden=true` around visible read-only value to avoid double reading by screen-reader

#### for #noStaticDomain template:

- `span` added (visually hidden) for screen-reader to read `value x of attribute y` (in order to better distinguish between text of a value and text of an attribute for screen-reader users)
- `span` added with `aria-hidden=true` around visible read-only value to avoid double reading by screen-reader

#### for userInput part:

- `span` added (visually hidden) for screen-reader to read `value x of attribute y` (in order to better distinguish between text of a value and text of an attribute for screen-reader users)
- `span` added with `aria-hidden=true` around visible read-only value to avoid double reading by screen-reader

### ConfiguratorAttributeSingleSelectionBundleDropdownComponent

- `label` added (visually hidden) for screen-reader to read explanation of drop-down listbox (number of entries)

### ConfiguratorAttributeSingleSelectionImageComponent

- enclosing `div` added with attribute `role=listbox` to make clear for screen-reader that the enclosed divs belong to a list selection

### ConfiguratorConflictSuggestionComponent

- `span`-tags added around suggestion title and texts with attribute `aria-hidden=true` as the text for screen-reader is taken over by new attribute aria-label at `div`-tag to provide consistent screen-reader text for different browsers

### ConfiguratorAttributeSingleSelectionImageComponent

- `span`-tags added (visually hidden) to provide extra information for screen-reader users

### ConfiguratorOverviewAttributeComponent

- `span` added (visually hidden) for screen-reader to read `value x of attribute y` or `value x of attribute y surcharge z` if a price is present (in order to better distinguish between text of a value and text of an attribute for screen-reader users)

### ConfiguratorOverviewBundleAttributeComponent

- `span` added (visually hidden) for screen-reader to read `item x of attribute y`, `item x of attribute y, surcharge z`, `item x of attribute y, quantity 123` or `item x of attribute y, quantity 123, surcharge z` depending on availability of price and quantity

### ConfiguratorOverviewFormComponent

- `span`-tags added (visually hidden) to provide extra information for screen-reader users

### ConfiguratorProductTitleComponent

- `span` with attribute `aria-hidden=true` around visible link text to avoid double reading by screen-reader (text is covered by new `aria-label` attribute of surrounding `div`)

### ConfiguratorUpdateMessageComponent

- `div` with attributes `aria-live=polite` and `aria-atomic=false` added around update message div in order to monitor changes in this area. As soon as update message becomes visible it will be read by the screen-reader (in polite mode).

### OccConfiguratorVariantNormalizer

- Method `convertAttributeType` changes its signature from `convertAttributeType(type: OccConfigurator.UiType): Configurator.UiType` to `convertAttributeType(sourceAttribute: OccConfigurator.Attribute): Configurator.UiType`.

### ConfiguratorStorefrontUtilsService

The method `isInViewport` has been removed. It is no longer needed as scrolling is always executed on navigation regardless of position of element.

### TabParagraphContainerComponent

- `BreakpointService` service has been removed, accordion view is now displayed for all screen sizes.
- `ariaLabel` has been added to fill the container aria-label based on displayed components.

#### Template changes

- Second ng-container, `<ng-container *ngFor="let component of components; let i = index">` has been wrapped in a `div` for screen reader improvements.
- `span` with class `accordion-icon` added as icon placeholder for screen reader improvements.

### ProductImageZoomProductImagesComponent

- Exposes field `product$: Observable<Product>` from parent component `ProductImagesComponent`

#### Template changes

- Element `<cx-carousel *ngIf="thumbs.length" class="thumbs"....>` has been wrapped in a new container `<ng-container *ngIf="product$ | async as product">` for screen reader improvements.

### CartTotalsComponent

- The `entries$` property was removed.
- The `cartValidationInProgress` property was removed.
- Removed `Router` from constructor.
- The `ngOnDestroy` method was removed.
- The `disableButtonWhileNavigation` method was removed.

#### Template changes

- Removed progress button component in favor for decoupling the cart-totals business logic and the button to proceed to checkout. The new button component which is CMS-driven is tied to a cms component called `CartProceedToCheckoutComponent` that is mapped to the Spartacus component `CartProceedToCheckoutComponent`.

### ProgressButtonComponent

- The Output property `clikEvent` has been renamed to `clickEvent` (typo).

### FacetListComponent

#### Template changes

- Top element `<div>` has been changed to `<sector>` to make accesibility navigation consistent.

### Translation (i18n) changes related to accessibility in variant configuration

The following keys have been added to `configurator-common.ts`:

- `configurator.a11y.xx`
- `configurator.a11y.configureProduct`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryBundleInfo`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryBundleInfo_other`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryBundleName`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryBundleNameWithQuantity`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryBundleNameWithPrice`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryBundle`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryInfoIntro`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryInfo`
- `configurator.a11y.nameOfAttribute`
- `configurator.a11y.valueOfAttribute`
- `configurator.a11y.forAttribute`
- `configurator.a11y.valueOfAttributeFull`
- `configurator.a11y.valueOfAttributeFullWithPrice`
- `configurator.a11y.selectedValueOfAttributeFull`
- `configurator.a11y.selectedValueOfAttributeFullWithPrice`
- `configurator.a11y.readOnlyValueOfAttributeFull`
- `configurator.a11y.valueOfAttributeBlank`
- `configurator.a11y.value`
- `configurator.a11y.attribute`
- `configurator.a11y.requiredAttribute`
- `configurator.a11y.listOfAttributesAndValues`
- `configurator.a11y.editAttributesAndValues`
- `configurator.a11y.group`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeSelected`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeSelectedWithPrice`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeSelectedPressToUnselect`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeSelectedPressToUnselectWithPrice`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeUnselected`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeUnselectedWithPrice`
- `configurator.a11y.selectNoItemOfAttribute`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttribute`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeFull`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeFullWithPrice`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeFullWithQuantity`
- `configurator.a11y.itemOfAttributeFullWithPriceAndQuantity`
- `configurator.a11y.itemDescription`
- `configurator.a11y.listbox`
- `configurator.a11y.valueSurcharge`
- `configurator.a11y.conflictDetected`
- `configurator.a11y.conflictsInConfiguration`
- `configurator.a11y.listOfGroups`
- `configurator.a11y.inListOfGroups`
- `configurator.a11y.groupName`
- `configurator.a11y.groupBack`
- `configurator.a11y.conflictBack`
- `configurator.a11y.iconConflict`
- `configurator.a11y.iconIncomplete`
- `configurator.a11y.iconComplete`
- `configurator.a11y.iconSubGroup`
- `configurator.a11y.next`
- `configurator.a11y.previous`
- `configurator.a11y.showMoreProductInfo`
- `configurator.a11y.showLessProductInfo`
- `configurator.a11y.productName`
- `configurator.a11y.productCode`
- `configurator.a11y.productDescription`
- `configurator.a11y.configurationPage`
- `configurator.a11y.configurationPageLink`
- `configurator.a11y.overviewPage`
- `configurator.a11y.overviewPageLink`
- `configurator.attribute.singleSelectAdditionalRequiredMessage`

## Breaking Changes Introduced in 5.0

### DeliveryAddressComponent

- Added `GlobalMessageService` to constructor.

### Translation (i18n) changes

- `configurator.conflict.viewConfigurationDetails` was added to `configurator-common.ts`
- `quickOrderCartForm.entriesWasAdded` changed to `quickOrderCartForm.entriesWereAdded`
- `quickOrder.addToCart` changed to `quickOrder.add`
- `payment.paymentForm.setAsDefault` changed from `Set as default` to `Set as default payment method` for screen reader improvements.
- `storeFinder.storeFinder.searchBox` changed from `Enter postal code, town or address` to `Postal code, town or address`
- `common.searchBox.placeholder` changed from `Search here...` to `Enter product name or SKU`
- Translation for key `address.addressForm.setAsDefault` changed from `Set as default` to `Set as default shipping address`
- `quickOrderForm.searchBoxLabel` changed from `Enter Product name or SKU for quick order` to `Enter Product name or SKU for quick order. You can add up to {{ limit }} products per order.` for screen reader improvements.
- `AccountOrderHistoryTabContainer.tabs.tabPanelContainerRegion` was added to `order.i18n.ts`

### OrderHistoryComponent

- Changed `<h3 *ngIf="!type.replenishmentOrder"></h3>` to `<h2 *ngIf="!type.replenishmentOrder"></h2>`
- Added `TranslationService` to constructor.

### ShippingAddressComponent

- Added `GlobalMessageService` to constructor.

### AddressBookComponent

- Added `GlobalMessageService` to constructor.
- Changed `setAddressAsDefault` method parameter type`string` to `Address`.

### OrderConfirmationThankYouMessageComponent

- Added `GlobalMessageService` to constructor.
- Added `TranslationService` to constructor.

#### Template Changes

- Component template was modified to display `span` instead of `h1` for page title.

### PromotionsComponent

- Component template was modified to display single promotions using the `p` tag and multiple promotions using `ul` list elements

### CartDetailsComponent

- Component template was modified to display `h2` instead of `h4` for cart name.
- Button in `#saveForLaterBtn` is no longer wrapped by div element.

### SaveForLaterComponent

- Button in `#moveToCartBtn` is no longer wrapped by div element.

### CartOutlets

- New enum values available: `LIST_ITEM` and `ITEM_CONFIGURATOR_ISSUES`;

### CartItemComponent

- Component template was modified to display `h3` instead of `h2` for product name.
- Component template was modified, `tabindex` for `a` element inside `<div class="col-2 cx-image-container">` has been changed from `-1` to `0`
- Added separated `[cxOutlet]="CartOutlets.ITEM_CONFIGURATOR_ISSUES"` inside `ITEM` outlet.

### CartItemListComponent

- Component template was modified to display native table instead of nested divs. The structure has been simplified and bootstrap classes has been removed.
- It doesn't use `cx-cart-item` anymore. Instead, it uses new `cx-cart-item-list-row` component.

### ConfiguratorIssuesNotificationComponent

- Default config of outlet has been changed from `{id: CartOutlets.ITEM, position: OutletPosition.BEFORE}` to `{id: CartOutlets.ITEM_CONFIGURATOR_ISSUES, position: OutletPosition.REPLACE,}`.

### OrderSummaryComponent

- Component template was modified to display `h2` instead of `h3` for order summary.
- Markup template changed in `order-summary.component.html`. `h2` tag has been converted to `div.cx-summary-heading` and `h4.cx-review-cart-heading` has been converted to `div.cx-review-cart-heading` in two places for screen reader improvements.

### ProductAttributesComponent

- Component template was modified to display `h2` instead of `h3` for classification name.

### CartCouponComponent

- Component template was modified to display coupon as a `label` inside a form. Previously it was in a `div` before `form` tag.

### CheckoutProgressComponent

- `section` element changed to `nav`.

### CardComponent

- Component template was modified to display `span` instead of `h3` for card title.
- `<a>{{action.name}}</a>` changed to `<button>{{ action.name }}</button>`
- `cx-card-link card-link btn-link` classes have been replaced with a single class `link`

### StoreFinderSearchComponent

- Component template modified, `input[attr.aria-label]="'common.search' | cxTranslate"` has been changed to `input[attr.aria-label]="'storeFinder.searchBoxLabel' | cxTranslate"`
- Component template modified, `cx-icon[attr.aria-label]="'common.search' | cxTranslate"` has been changed to `cx-icon[attr.aria-label]="'storeFinder.searchNearestStores' | cxTranslate"`

### StoreFinderListComponent

- Component template modified, part under `<div class="cx-columns-mobile">` has been refactored to not depend on `NgbNav` anymore.
- All related directives have been removed, like: `ngbNav`, `ngbNavItem`, `ngbNavLink`, `ngbNavContent`, `ngbNavOutlet`.
- Attributes `role="tablist"` and `class="nav cx-nav"` were added to `ul`.
- Attribute `class="nav-item cx-nav-item"` has been added to `li` elements.
- Clickable tabs were replaced from `a` tag to `button`.
- Variable `displayModes` was added to iterate tabs through available display modes.
- Element `<div class="cx-address-col">` was wrapped by `<div id="tab-listView-panel" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="tab-listView">` to improve a11y performance.
- Element `<div class="cx-map-col">` was wrapped by `<div id="tab-mapView-panel" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="tab-mapView">` to improve a11y performance.
- To display appropriate content `[ngSwitch]` and `[ngSwitchCase]` directives were added.

### SearchBoxComponent

- Component template modified, `<label class="searchbox" [class.dirty]="!!searchInput.value">` has been wrapped in a `div`
- Attribute `role="listbox"` has been added to `ul` tags and `role="option"` to descendant `a` elements for accessibility improvements.

### AuthHttpHeaderService

- The `refreshInProgress` property was removed. Use `refreshInProgress$` Observable instead.
- The `handleExpiredToken` method was removed. Use `getValidToken` instead.
- In `handleExpiredAccessToken` method third parameter `initialToken` is now required.

### QuickOrderService

- Removed `ProductAdapter` from constructor.
- Added `ProductSearchConnector` to constructor.
- The `search` method was removed. Use `searchProducts` instead.
- The `removeEntry` method was removed. Use `softDeleteEntry` instead.

### QuickOrderFormComponent

- Removed `GlobalMessageService` from constructor.
- Added `Config` to constructor.
- Added `ChangeDetectorRef` to constructor.
- Added `WindowRef` to constructor.

- Component template modified, `input[attr.aria-label]="'common.search' | cxTranslate"` has been changed to `input[attr.aria-label]="'quickOrderForm.searchBoxLabel' | cxTranslate"`

- Styling for `cx-quick-order-form` dom element: deprecated class `search` was removed. Use `quick-order-form-search-icon` class instead.

### QuickOrderTableComponent

- Component template was modified to display native table instead of nested divs. The structure has been simplified and bootstrap classes has been removed.

### QuickOrderItemComponent

- The selector should not be used independently - it should be applied for `tr` elements.
- Component template was modified to display content of native table's cells (`td`) instead of nested divs. The structure has been simplified and bootstrap classes has been removed.

### WishListComponent

- Component template was modified to display native table instead of nested divs. The structure has been simplified and bootstrap classes has been removed.

### WishListItemComponent

- The selector should not be used independently - it should be applied for `tr` elements.
- Component template was modified to display content of native table's cells (`td`) instead of nested divs. The structure has been simplified and bootstrap classes has been removed.

### AmendOrderItemsComponent

- Component template was modified to display native table instead of nested divs. The structure has been simplified and bootstrap classes has been removed.

### ReturnRequestItemsComponent

- Component template was modified to display native table instead of nested divs. The structure has been simplified and bootstrap classes has been removed.

### DeliveryModeComponent

- the condition to show a spinner was changed to: `supportedDeliveryModes$ | async)?.length && !(isSetDeliveryModeBusy$ | async)`.
- the `ng-container` wrapper which holds `div.row.cx-checkout-btns` is removed.
- the `disabled` property binding of continue `button` was changed to: `deliveryModeInvalid`.

### StoreFinderListItemComponent

- `store-finder-list-item.component.html` markup structure changed. `h2.cx-store-name > button` changed to `a.cx-store-name` for screen reader improvements.

### BreadcrumbComponent

#### Template changes

- `breadcrumb.component.html` markup structure change from `nav > span > a` to `nav > ol > li > a` for Screen reader improvements and corresponding styles has also been updated.

#### Translation (i18n) changes

- `common.breadcrumbs` was added to `common.ts`

### ParagraphComponent

- `p` has been replaced by `div` tag.
- Added `Router` to constructor.

### AddressFormComponent

#### Template changes

- Separated the bootstrap class `"row"` from the parent `<div class="cx-address-form-btns">` to keep the html semantic and keep the cx class from overwriting the bootstrap styles
- Moved element `<div class="cx-address-form-btns">` inside the top level `<div class="row">`
- Changed classes of `<div class="col-md-12 col-lg-6">` to `<div class="col-md-13 col-lg-6">` inside `<div class="cx-address-form-btns">`
- Changed classes of `<div class="col-md-12 col-lg-9">` to `<div class="col-md-12 col-xl-10">` inside `<form (ngSubmit)="verifyAddress()" [formGroup]="addressForm">` from the first row .column

### CancelOrderComponent

#### Template changes

- Added `<cx-message>` element inside the wrapper `<ng-container *ngIf="form$ | async as form">` to indicate form error

### ReviewSubmitComponent

- Markup template changed in `review-submit.component.html`. `h4.cx-review-cart-total` tag has been converted to `div.cx-review-cart-total` for screen reader improvements.

### NavigationUIComponent

- public method `reinitalizeMenu` has been renamed to `reinitializeMenu` (typo).
- Added `WindowRef` to constructor.

#### Template changes - structure of navigation has been changed:

- whole content has been wrapped in `nav > ul`
- `div > span.back` has been replaced by `li > button.back`
- every smaller `nav` has been changed to `li`
- `span` which was a header in `ng-template #heading` has been changed to `cx-generic-link` + `button` in most of the cases (except e.g. footer-nav structure)
- `div.wrapper > cx-generic-link` with "shop all ..." link has been removed. Now the `cx-generic-link` will be displayed in `#heading` (see point above).

#### Translations (i18n) changes

- key `common.navigation.shopAll` has been removed.
- added new keys: `common.navigation.categoryNavLabel`, `common.navigation.footerNavLabel`

### ProductImageZoomProductImagesComponent

- Exposes field `product$: Observable<Product>` from parent component `ProductImagesComponent`

#### Template changes

- Element `<cx-carousel *ngIf="thumbs.length" class="thumbs"....>` has been wrapped in a new container `<ng-container *ngIf="product$ | async as product">` for screen reader improvements.

### CheckoutPageMetaResolver

- Class now implements `PageHeadingResolver`
- Attribute `cart$: Observable<Cart>`has been removed
- Method `resolveTitle` has been modified to return `basePageMetaResolver.resolveTitle` instead of translating `'pageMetaResolver.checkout.title'` with parameter `totalItems` from `cart$`

### FacetListComponent

#### Template changes

- Top element `<div>` has been changed to `<sector>` to make accesibility navigation consistent.
- Attribute `role="group"` has been added on each `cx-facet` element to improve accesibility.
- `[cxFoxus]` directive was removed from `<cx-facet>` in template to support Screen Readers.
- `(unlock)` directive was removed from `<cx-facet>` in template to support Screen Readers.

### StoreFinderComponent

#### Template changes

- `div` container of class `cx-store-finder-wrapper` has been wrapped by another `div` for better a11y performance.

#### Translation (i18n) changes

- `resultsFound` key has been removed.
- Following keys `storesFound`, `ariaLabelCountriesCount` have been added for screen reader improvements.

### BadRequestHandler

- Moved `handleVoucherOperationError` method from `core` to the new handler `BadVoucherRequestHandler` in cart-lib

- Method `handleBadLoginResponse` has been modified to determine error message for email update or password change based on url pathname.

### FacetComponent

- Attribute `role="checkbox"` has been added to checkable `a` elements for accesibility improvements.

#### Translations (i18n) changes

- Added new key `product.productFacetNavigation.ariaLabelItemsAvailable` to improve Screen Readers vocalization.

### SpinnerComponent

- Attribute `role="status"` has been added to `div` of class `loader-container` for accesibility improvements.

### SavedCartEvents

#### DeleteSavedCartEvent

- Event was moved to 'cart.events.ts' in @spartacus/cart/base/root, and renamed to DeleteCartEvent.

#### DeleteSavedCartSuccessEvent

- Event was moved to 'cart.events.ts' in @spartacus/cart/base/root, and renamed to DeleteCartSuccessEvent.

#### DeleteSavedCartFailEvent

- Event was moved to 'cart.events.ts' in @spartacus/cart/base/root, and renamed to DeleteCartFailEvent.

### CheckoutPlaceOrderComponent

#### Translation (i18n) changes

- Added new key `checkoutReview.placeOrder` to improve Screen Readers vocalization.

### ProductListComponent

- Added `GlobalMessageService` to constructor.

### FormErrorsComponent

- Class now implements 'DoCheck'.
- Added `ChangeDetectionRef` to constructor.
- Added `KeyValueDiffers` to constructor.
- Added host attribute `role="alert"`.
- Added new property `hidden` which is host for class `cx-visually-hidden`.
- content rendering depends on `hidden` flag.
- deprecated field `errors$` has been removed.
- `errorsDetails$` field type has been changed from `Observable<Array<[string, string]>>` to `Observable<Array<[string, string | boolean]>>`

### ConfigModule 

 - Type of property `configFactory` in static method `withConfigFactory` has been changed from `Function` to `ConfigFactory` to improve type checking. 
 If needed, type can be extended by module augmentation. For more details, see [Extending Built-In Models](https://sap.github.io/spartacus-docs/type-augmentation/)

### Config providers

- Type of property `configFactory` in static methods `provideConfigFactory` and `provideDefaultConfigFactory` has been changed from `Function` to `ConfigFactory` to improve type checking. 
If needed, type can be extended by module augmentation. For more details, see [Extending Built-In Models](https://sap.github.io/spartacus-docs/type-augmentation/)

### ComponentWrapperDirective

- `EventService` is now a new required constructor dependency.
- `cmfRef` has been made `protected` due to being unsafe.

### InnerComponentsHostDirective

- Added `EventService` to constructor.

### OAuthLibWrapperService

- The method `tryLogin()` returns `Promise<OAuthTryLoginResult>` instead of `Promise<boolean>`.

### StockNotificationDialogComponent

#### Translation (i18n) changes

- `subscriptionDialog.notifiedSuffix` changed from `as soons as this product is back in stock.` to `as soon as this product is back in stock.`.
- `subscriptionDialog.manageChannelsPrefix` changed from `Manage your prefered notification channels at the ` to `Manage your preferred notification channels on the `.
- `subscriptionDialog.manageSubscriptionsPrefix` changed from `You can manage your subscriptions at ` to `You can manage your subscriptions on `.

### AddToCartComponent

#### Template changes

- Wrapped elements `cx-item-counter` and `span.info` in a `div` to prevent styling bug on Firefox.

### ProductIntroComponent

- Class no longer implements `AfterContentChecked`.
- Class has new dependency `EventService`.
- Class has new protected field `reviewsComponentId`.
- Class has new protected field `reviewsTranslationKey`.
- Property `reviewsTabAvailable` has been renamed to `areReviewsAvailable$`.
- `areReviewsAvailable$` property type has been changed from `BehaviorSubject<boolean>` to `Observable<boolean>`
- `product$` property type has been changed from `Observable<Product>` to `Observable<Product | null>`
- Access modifier of method `getReviewsComponent` has been changed from `private` to `protected`.
- Return type of `getReviewsComponent` has been changed from `Element` to `HTMLElement | null`.
- Return type of `getTabsComponent` has been changed from `Element` to `HTMLElement | null`.
- Return type of `getTabByLabel` has been changed from `HTMLElement` to `HTMLElement | undefined`.

### i18next breaking changes
Due to i18next migration, certain set of keys have been migrated (from `_plural` to `_other`) to include proper plural form suffixes:
- `common.pageMetaResolver.category.title_other`
- `common.pageMetaResolver.search.title_other`
- `common.pageMetaResolver.search.findProductTitle_other`
- `common.searchBox.suggestionsResult_other`
- `common.miniCart.item_other`
- `product.productFacetNavigation.ariaLabelItemsAvailable_other`
- `product.productReview.addRate_other`
- `quickOrderList.errors.outOfStockErrorFound_other`
- `quickOrderList.warnings.reduceWarningFound_other`
- `quickOrderList.successes.addedToCartFound_other`
- `cart.cartItems.cartTotal_other`
- `cart.voucher.coupon_other`
- `cart.saveForLaterItems.itemTotal_other`
- `configurator.header.items_other`
- `configurator.notificationBanner.numberOfIssues_other`
- `configurator.a11y.cartEntryBundleInfo_other`
- `importEntriesDialog.warning_other`
- `importEntriesDialog.error_other`
- `storeFinder.storesFound_other`
- `storeFinder.fromStoresFound_other`

### GenericLinkComponent

- Added `GenericLinkComponentService` to constructor.

### BannerComponent

- Added `CmsService` to constructor.
- Added `SemanticPathService` to constructor.

### UpdateProfileComponent

### MediaComponent
- `get loadingStrategy()` changed return type from `string` to `ImageLoadingStrategy | null`.

#### Translation (i18n) changes

- `updateProfileForm.title` changed from `''` to `'Title'`

### CheckoutPaymentTypeComponent

#### Template Changes

- Changed `<ng-container *ngIf="(typeSelected$ | async) && !(isUpdating$ | async); else loading">` to `<ng-container *ngIf="!!paymentTypes.length && (typeSelected$ | async) && !(isUpdating$ | async); else loading">`

### ProductCarouselComponent

- Template code for carousel item has been moved to a reusable component - `ProductCarouselItemComponent` Its selector is `<cx-product-carousel-item>`.

### KeyboardFocusModule

- `KeyboardFocusConfig` has been removed.
- `keyboardFocusFactory` had been removed.

### OnNavigateFocusService

- This service had been removed in favour of autoscroll fixes made to the `Router`.

### AsmMainUICmmponent

- Added `UserAccountFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.
  
### CustomerEmulationComponent

- Added `UserAccountFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.

### CxAgentAuthService

- Added `UserProfileFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.

### SelectiveCartService

- Added `UserProfileFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.

### SavedCartService

- Added `UserAccountFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.

### WishListService

- Added `UserAccountFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.

### UserFormComponent

- Added `UserProfileFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.

### AdminGuard

- Added `UserAccountFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor. 

### B2BUserEffects 

- Added `UserAccountFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.
  
### ApproverGuard

- Added `UserAccountFacade` to constructor.
- Removed `UserService` from constructor.

### OccEndpoints

- Endpoints `b2bUsers`, `b2bUser`, `b2bUserApprovers`, `b2bUserApprover`, `b2bUserUserGroups`, `b2bUserUserGroup`, `b2bUserPermissions`, `b2bUserPermission`, `budget`, `budgets`, `costCentersAll`, `costCenter`, `costCenters`, `costCenterBudgets`, `costCenterBudget`, `orgUnits`, `orgUnitsAvailable`, `orgUnitsTree`, `orgUnitsApprovalProcesses`, `orgUnit`, `orgUnitUsers`, `orgUnitUserRoles`, `orgUnitUserRole`, `orgUnitApprovers`, `orgUnitApprover`, `orgUnitsAddresses`, `orgUnitsAddress`, `permissions`, `permission`, `orderApprovalPermissionTypes`, `userGroups`, `userGroup`, `userGroupAvailableOrderApprovalPermissions`, `userGroupAvailableOrgCustomers`, `userGroupMembers`, `userGroupMember`, `userGroupOrderApprovalPermissions`, `userGroupOrderApprovalPermission` were removed from the declaration in `@spartacus/core`. Those endpoints are now provided with module augmentation from `@spartacus/organization/administration/occ`. Default values are also provided from this new entry point.
- Endpoints `orderApprovals`, `orderApproval`, `orderApprovalDecision`, were removed from the declaration in `@spartacus/core`. Those endpoints are now provided with module augmentation from `@spartacus/organization/order-approval/occ`. Default values are also provided from this new entry point.
- Endpoints `store`, `stores`, `storescounts`, were removed from the declaration in `@spartacus/core`. Those endpoints are now provided with module augmentation from `@spartacus/storefinder/occ`. Default values are also provided from this new entry point.

### IconLoaderService

- Text type icon symbols are now converted into text, meaning DOM does not render HTML symbols anymore.

### JsonLdScriptFactory

- Removed `DomSanitizer` from constructor.
- `sanitize` method was removed, replaced by `escapeHTML` for security improvement.

### JsonLdDirective
- Added `Renderer2` and `ElementRef` to constructor
- Removed `DomSanitizer` from constructor.

## Schematics

`Account` and `Profile` CLI names have been changed to `User-Account` and `User-Profile`, respectively, to better reflect their purpose.


## Merchandising Module Changes

### Not used converters removed

- Removed converter class `MerchandisingFacetNormalizer`
- Removed converter class `MerchandisingFacetToQueryparamNormalizer`
- Removed const `MERCHANDISING_FACET_NORMALIZER` pointing to MerchandisingFacetNormalizer converter
- Removed const `MERCHANDISING_FACET_TO_QUERYPARAM_NORMALIZER` pointing to MerchandisingFacetToQueryparamNormalizer converter
- Removed `forRoot` method from `MerchandisigModule`

### CdsMerchandisingProductService

- Removed `CdsMerchandisingSearchContextService` from constructor
- Changed return type for method `loadProductsForStrategy`  (`Observable<StrategyProducts>` -> `Observable<StrategyResponse>`)

### CdsMerchandisingUserContextService

- Removed `ConverterService` from constructor
- Added `FacetService` to constructor


### OrderHistoryComponent

- Added `PONumber` and `costCenter` columns to the `table`
- Attribute `role="table"` has been added to `table` for accesibility improvements.
- Added hidden `caption` in the `table` for accesibility improvements.
- Attribute `role="row"` has been added to `tr` for accesibility improvements.
- Attribute `role="cell"` has been added to `td` for accesibility improvements.


### AsmComponentsModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### ImportOrderEntriesModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### CheckoutPlaceOrderModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### ReplenishmentOrderDetailsModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### OrderDetailsModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### ReplenishmentOrderHistoryModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### ProductImageZoomModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### CdsModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### AnonymousConsentManagementBannerModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### LayoutModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### TableModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### AddedToCartDialogModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### MyCouponsModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.

### StockNotificationModule

- Changed `provideConfig` to `provideDefaultConfig`.


### TrackingEventsComponent
- All classes related to component templating have been prefixes with `cx-`
- Changed `<div class="events modal-body">` to `<div class="cx-tracking-events modal-body">`
- Changed `<div class="event-body">` to `<div class="cx-tracking-event-body">`
- Changed `<div class="event-content">` to `<div class="cx-tracking-event-content">`
- Changed `<div class="event-title">` to `<div class="cx-tracking-event-title">`
- Changed `<div class="event-city">` to `<div class="cx-tracking-event-city">`
- Changed `<div class="tracking-loading">` to `<div class="cx-tracking-loading">`

### AddedToCartDialogComponent

- Wrapper for entire dialog `<div #dialog>` has been removed. Instead all modal content was wrapped inside  `<div class="cx-modal-container">` and `<div class="cx-modal-content">` tags
- Directives `cxModal` and `cxModalReason` were removed from action buttons 
- Close modal action is now performed by `(click)="dismissModal('Reason')"` method 

### SuggestedAddressesDialogComponent

- template has been wrapped with `<div *ngIf="data$ | async as data" class="cx-suggested-addresses-dialog">` > `<div class="cx-suggested-addresses-container">`
- Changed `<div class="cx-dialog-header modal-header">` to `<div class="cx-suggested-addresses-header">`
- Changed `<div class="cx-dialog-title modal-title">` to `<div class="cx-suggested-addresses-header">`
- Changed `<div class="cx-dialog-body modal-body" ngForm>` to `<div class="cx-suggested-addresses-body" ngForm>`
- Removed `<div class="container">`
- Removed all `<div class="row">`
- Footer part has been wrapped with `<div class="cx-suggested-addresses-footer">`
- Class `btn-block` has been removed from `<button class="btn btn-secondary btn-block cx-dialog-buttons" (click)="closeModal()">`
- Class `btn-block` has been removed from `<button cxAutoFocus class="btn btn-primary btn-block cx-dialog-buttons" (click)="closeModal(selectedAddress)">`

### CloseAccountModalComponent

- template inside `<ng-container>` has been wrapped with `<div class="cx-close-account-modal" [cxFocus]="focusConfig" (esc)="dismissModal('Escape click')">` and `<div class="cx-close-account-modal-container">`
- Changed `<div class="modal-header cx-dialog-header">` to `<div class="cx-close-account-modal-header">`
- Changed `<h3 class="modal-title">` to `<h3 class="cx-close-account-modal-title">`
- Changed `<div class="modal-body">` to `<div class="cx-close-account-modal-body">`
- Changed `<div class="cx-btn-group">` to `<div class="cx-close-account-modal-footer">`
- All `<div class="cx-row">` have been removed
- Added class `.cx-close-account-modal` extending `.modal-dialog` and `.modal-dialog-centered`
- Added class `.cx-close-account-modal-container { padding: 1rem }` extending `.modal-content` 
- Added class `.cx-close-account-modal-header {display: flex; justify-content: space-between}` including `type('3')`
- Added class `.cx-close-account-modal-title` including `type('3')`
- Added class `.cx-close-account-modal-body { padding: 1rem 0 }` extending `.modal-body`
- Added class `cx-close-account-modal-footer { display: flex }`

### CouponDialogComponent

- Added two levels of wrappers in template to align structure with other dialogs in project: `.cx-coupon-dialog` and `.cx-coupon-container`
- Changed close button click event method from `dismissModal` to `close` 

### StockNotificationDialogComponent

- All modal content wrapped inside  `<div class="cx-stock-notification-dialog">` and `<div class="cx-modal-container">` tags


### CdcJsService 

- Added `GlobalMessageService` to constructor.

## Breaking changes in user-profile library

- Added `RegisterComponentService` that accepts `UserRegisterFacade` through constructor injection. `RegisterComponentService` has only those methods from `UserRegisterFacade` that are needed for `RegisterComponent`.
- Updated the constructor of `RegisterComponent` and replaced `UserRegisterFacade` with `RegisterComponentService`.

## Breaking changes in cdc intrgration library

- When `CX_CDC` is enabled, the native Login / Register and Forgot Password screens uses CDC JS SDK to perform user account creation and authentication.
- Added `CDCRegisterComponentService` that extends `RegisterComponentService`. It invokes CDC JS SDK to register the user and overrides the `postRegisterMessage()` to suppress the success message on sucessful registration.
- Added `CdcLoginFormComponentService` that extends `LoginFormComponentService` and invokes CDC JS SDK to login the user.
- Added `CDCForgotPasswordComponentService` that extends `ForgotPasswordComponentService` and invokes CDC JS SDK to send the account reset email.
