# Technical Changes in Spartacus 6.0

## SSR and Prerendering

If you are using prerendering, you will need to provide the following function to your `AppServerModule`:

```ts
import { provideServer } from '@spartacus/setup/ssr';
@NgModule({
  ...
  providers: [
    ...provideServer({
      serverRequestOrigin: process.env['SERVER_REQUEST_ORIGIN'],
    }),
    ...
  ],
})
export class AppServerModule {}
```

It is _mandatory_ to set the `serverRequestOrigin` option for the prerendering, as it can not be automatically resolved.

In SSR mode, it will be automatically resolved from the express server, therefore it doesn't have to be set via this option.
If explicitly set, this option will take precedence over the express server.

### AppliedCouponsComponent

- Removed invalid attribute (role) from div tags for accesibility improvements.

### OrderHistoryComponent

- Added `PONumber` and `costCenter` columns to the `table`
- Attribute `role="table"` has been added to `table` for accessibility improvements.
- Added hidden `caption` in the `table` for accessibility improvements.
- Attribute `role="row"` has been added to `tr` for accessibility improvements.
- Attribute `role="cell"` has been added to `td` for accessibility improvements.
- Wrapped `th` tags with `tr` for accessibility improvements.

### OrderApprovalListComponent

- Wrapped `cx-sorting` with `label` and added hidden `span` for accessibility improvements.
- Attribute `role="table"` has been added to `table` for accessibility improvements.
- Added hidden `caption` in the `table` for accessibility improvements.
- Attribute `role="row"` has been added to `tr` for accessibility improvements.
- Attribute `role="cell"` has been added to `td` for accessibility improvements.

### ReplenishmentOrderHistoryComponent

- Added column header text for actions column.
- Added hidden `caption` in the `table` for accessibility improvements.

### SavedCartListComponent

- Replaced h3 tag with h2 tag `header` for accessibility improvements.

### PaymentMethodsComponent

- Replaced h3 tag with h2 tag `header` for accessibility improvements.

### MyCouponsComponent

- Replaced h3 tag with h2 tag `header` for accessibility improvements.

### MyInterestsComponent

- Replaced h3 tag with h2 tag `header` for accessibility improvements.

### AddressBookComponent

- Replaced p tag with h2 tag for `header` for accessibility improvements.

### CouponCardComponent

- Replaced anchor tag with button tag for `read more` link for accesibility tabbing improvements.

### OnNavigateService

- When using Spartacus's implementation for Scroll Position Restoration we need to disables automatic scroll restoration provided by the browser viewportScroller to work correctly. `viewportScroller.setHistoryScrollRestoration('manual')`

### QuickOrderFormComponent
- Renamed `div` tag `id` value and `input` tag `aria-controls` value to remove duplicate ids occurred in the screen.

### FacetListComponent

- Separated button tag from header tag for accessibility improvements

### UpdatePasswordComponentService

- Added `AuthRedirectService` to constructor.
- Added `AuthService` to constructor.

### QuickOrderComponent

- Replaced h3 tag with h2 tag `header` for accessibility improvements.

### defaultCouponLayoutConfig

- Changed `inline: true` to `inlineRoot: true` for keyboard tabbing and VO to work correctly.

### defaultAnonymousConsentLayoutConfig

- Changed `inline: true` to `inlineRoot: true` for keyboard tabbing and VO to work correctly.

### ParagraphComponent

- The `handleClick()` method now uses the condition `documentHost === element.host` to recognise external links.
- The `handleClick()` method now uses `router.navigateByUrl()` to navigate internal links.
