docs/contributing/coding-guidelines.md, before:

# Coding Guidelines

To keep the Spartacus code readable and maintainable, please follow these rules, even if you find them violated somewhere. Note that this list is not complete.
When a file is consistently not following these rules and adhering to the rules would make the code worse, follow the local style.

[TOC]

## Overall Angular Guidelines

### General

We are following [Google's Style Guide](https://angular.io/guide/styleguide).

### Coding Guidelines Check using the CLI

Certain guideline violations can be detected automatically by a tool called codelyzer, which is bundled with the Angular CLI. You can analyze an angular app with the following command:

```
$ ng lint
```


The tool reports violations to the guidelines for the whole application.  If all good, it will output:

```
All files pass linting.
```

Otherwise, issues will be listed:

```
ERROR: /SAPDevelop/AngularApp/src/app/myfeature/myfeature.component.ts[7, 14]: The name of the class MyFeature should end with the suffix Component (https://angular.io/styleguide#style-02-03)

Lint errors found in the listed files.
```


If you look at the end of the error message, there is a direct link to the style guideline that is violated.

### Coding Guidelines on the Pipeline

The  `ng lint` command is part of the Definition of Done and is integrated into the pipeline. 

New violations on the branch = non-green build + no merges allowed.

### Coding Guidelines in the IDE

To make the standards adoption even more seamless, vscode and other editors can provide live feedback from the rules reported by `ng lint`.

All that is required is to install the TSLint plugin. So far, it works out of the box without the need to add further configuration. (TSlint reads the project's `tslint.json` file and seems to figure it out on its own.)

### Coding guidelines in DOD

Use the TSLint vscode plugin. Code styling errors will show up in red as you type.



## Spartacus Specific Guidelines

### NGRX

We have chosen to use the NGRX store to manage the global application state in our features. Using NGRX has apparent advantages for performance, better testability, and ease of troubleshooting (with time travel and such).

- The rule of thumb is to use the store for a feature unless there is a compelling reason not to.  We want to keep it consistent throughout the app.
- Use one common store for the whole app.
- Using the store doesn’t mean that we need to cache everything.  Caching should be used with intent and where it makes sense.  In general, cms data is a good candidate for caching; application data is not.

### Site Context

Site context can be changed for each page. The response data may be different for different site context. Keep this in mind when working on pages.

Also, logged-in users and anonymous users may see different response data. When working on pages, take into consideration that a user can change their login status through login or logout.

### Naming Conventions

Component selectors should always start with "cx-". (Currently, many component selectors start with "y-" but this is being chnaged.)

### Code Structure

The code structure of each module should be consistent. For example:

- Store-related codes are in the `store` folder
- Component codes are inside the `component` folder
- All OCC (API) services are inside `OccModule`

However, common UI components are inside the `UI/components` folder.

### Keep Modules Small

Try to keep modules as small as possible. In most cases, one module has only one component.

### Unit Tests, Always

New code must always be covered by unit tests.

### End-To-End Tests

New, UI-oriented features must always be covered by basic UI end-to-end tests. The file names for the tests should end with `e2e-spec.ts`, and for page objects, the file names should end with `po.ts`. 

If you decide to write an end-to-end test based on user-flow, add the word `flow` to the test's name. If you have more than one user-flow test, separate them into individual files, so they can be run in parallel. We also recommend grouping the tests in a sub-directory with a relevant name. For reference, have a look at the end-to-end tests for product search.

To know if your end-to-end test belongs to the `smoke` folder or the `regression` folder, ask yourself the following questions:

* Is the functionality fragile?

    If yes, the test belongs in the `smoke` folder. A good example of fragile functionality is the product search.

* Is the user-flow critical?

    If yes, the test belongs in the `smoke` folder. A good example of a critical user-flow are the steps to complete the checkout.

If you answered "no" to these questions, then the test belongs in the `regression` folder.

### Reduce Module Dependencies

Always try to reduce module dependencies.

### Layers in Spartacus

`occ -> ngrx/store -> component`

We are currently planning to add a one-layer "facade" between ngrx/store and component. ProductModule is currently done, as is a part of CmsModule. We will add facades to all feature modules soon.

Commit message:

doc: Documentation updates for SSR (#1376)
* GH-838 - DOC: Launch storefront with SSR

* GH-838 - DOC: Coding guideliness

* GH-838 - DOC: Fix CMS Component mapping name

* GH-838 - DOC: Configurable state management

* GH-838: edits to various SSR doc files

* GH-838: Small edit regarding timeoouts

docs/contributing/coding-guidelines.md, after:

# Coding Guidelines

To keep the Spartacus code readable and maintainable, please follow these rules, even if you find them violated somewhere. Note that this list is not complete.
When a file is consistently not following these rules and adhering to the rules would make the code worse, follow the local style.

## Overall Angular Guidelines

### General

We are following [Google's Style Guide](https://angular.io/guide/styleguide).

### Coding Guidelines Check using the CLI

Certain guideline violations can be detected automatically by a tool called codelyzer, which is bundled with the Angular CLI. You can analyze an angular app with the following command:

```
$ ng lint
```


The tool reports violations to the guidelines for the whole application.  If all good, it will output:

```
All files pass linting.
```

Otherwise, issues will be listed:

```
ERROR: /SAPDevelop/AngularApp/src/app/myfeature/myfeature.component.ts[7, 14]: The name of the class MyFeature should end with the suffix Component (https://angular.io/styleguide#style-02-03)

Lint errors found in the listed files.
```


If you look at the end of the error message, there is a direct link to the style guideline that is violated.

### Coding Guidelines on the Pipeline

The  `ng lint` command is part of the Definition of Done and is integrated into the pipeline. 

New violations on the branch = non-green build + no merges allowed.

### Coding Guidelines in the IDE

To make the standards adoption even more seamless, vscode and other editors can provide live feedback from the rules reported by `ng lint`.

All that is required is to install the TSLint plugin. So far, it works out of the box without the need to add further configuration. (TSlint reads the project's `tslint.json` file and seems to figure it out on its own.)

### Coding guidelines in DOD

Use the TSLint vscode plugin. Code styling errors will show up in red as you type.



## Spartacus Specific Guidelines

### NGRX

We have chosen to use the NGRX store to manage the global application state in our features. Using NGRX has apparent advantages for performance, better testability, and ease of troubleshooting (with time travel and such).

- The rule of thumb is to use the store for a feature unless there is a compelling reason not to.  We want to keep it consistent throughout the app.
- Use one common store for the whole app.
- Using the store doesn’t mean that we need to cache everything.  Caching should be used with intent and where it makes sense.  In general, cms data is a good candidate for caching; application data is not.

### Site Context

Site context can be changed for each page. The response data may be different for different site context. Keep this in mind when working on pages.

Also, logged-in users and anonymous users may see different response data. When working on pages, take into consideration that a user can change their login status through login or logout.

### Naming Conventions

Component selectors should always start with "cx-". (Currently, many component selectors start with "y-" but this is being chnaged.)

### Code Structure

The code structure of each module should be consistent. For example:

- Store-related codes are in the `store` folder
- Component codes are inside the `component` folder
- All OCC (API) services are inside `OccModule`

However, common UI components are inside the `UI/components` folder.

### Keep Modules Small

Try to keep modules as small as possible. In most cases, one module has only one component.

### Unit Tests, Always

New code must always be covered by unit tests.

### End-To-End Tests

New, UI-oriented features must always be covered by basic UI end-to-end tests. The file names for the tests should end with `e2e-spec.ts`, and for page objects, the file names should end with `po.ts`. 

If you decide to write an end-to-end test based on user-flow, add the word `flow` to the test's name. If you have more than one user-flow test, separate them into individual files, so they can be run in parallel. We also recommend grouping the tests in a sub-directory with a relevant name. For reference, have a look at the end-to-end tests for product search.

To know if your end-to-end test belongs to the `smoke` folder or the `regression` folder, ask yourself the following questions:

* Is the functionality fragile?

    If yes, the test belongs in the `smoke` folder. A good example of fragile functionality is the product search.

* Is the user-flow critical?

    If yes, the test belongs in the `smoke` folder. A good example of a critical user-flow are the steps to complete the checkout.

If you answered "no" to these questions, then the test belongs in the `regression` folder.

### Reduce Module Dependencies

Always try to reduce module dependencies.

### Layers in Spartacus

`occ -> ngrx/store -> component`

We are currently planning to add a one-layer "facade" between `ngrx/store` and `component`. Work on the ProductModule is done, as is a part of the work on the CmsModule. We will add facades to all feature modules soon.

### Server-Side Rendering

Do not break server-side rendering (SSR).

For more information, see the [Server-Side Rendering Coding Guidelines](./coding-guidelines-ssr.md).
